PRINCIPIK 
DISCORDI/V 

• OR • 
How I Found Goddess 
And What I Did To Her 
When I Found Her 




THE MAGNUM OPIATE OF MALACL YPSE THE YOUNGER 

WHEREIN IS EXPLAINED 
ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWINO 
ABOUT ABSOLUTELY ANYTHING 



INTRODUCTION 



You hold in your hands one of the Great Books of our century fnord. 

Some Great Books are recognized at once with a fusillade of critical 
huzzahs and gonfolons, like Joyce's Ulysses. Others appear almost furtively 
and are only discovered 50 years later, like Moby Dick or Mendel's great 
essay on genetics. The Principia Discordia entered our space-time 
continuum almost as unobtrusively as a cat-burglar creeping over a 
windowsill. 

In 1968, virtually nobody had heard of this wonderful book. In 1970, 
hundreds of people from coast to coast were talking about it and asking the 
identity of the mysterious author, Malaclypse the Younger. Rumors swept 
across the continent, from New York to Los Angeles, from Seattle to St. Joe. 
Malaclypse was actually Alan Watts, one heard. No, said another legend - 
the Principia was actually the work of the Sufi Order. A third, very 
intriguing myth held that Malaclypse was a pen-name for Richard M. Nixon, 
who had allegedly composed the Principia during a few moments of 
lucidity. I enjoyed each of these yarns and did my part to help spread them. I 
was also careful never to contradict the occasional rumors that I had actually 
written the whole thing myself during an acid trip. 

The legendry, the mystery, the cult grew very slowly. By the mid- 
1970's, thousands of people, some as far off as Hong Kong and Australia, 
were talking about the Principia, and since the original was out of print by 
then, xerox copies were beginning to circulate here and there. 

When the Illuminatus trilogy appeared in 1975, my co-author, Bob 
Shea, and I both received hundreds of letters from people intrigued by the 
quotes from the Principia with which we had decorated the heads of several 
chapters. Many, who had already heard of the Principia or seen copies, 
asked if Shea and I had written it, or if we had copies available. Others wrote 
to ask if it were real, or just something we had invented the way H.P. 
Lovecraft invented the Necronomicon. We answered according to our 
moods, sometimes telling the truth, sometimes spreading the most Godawful 
lies and myths we could devise fnord. 

Why not? We felt that this book was a true Classic (literatus 
immortalis) and, since the alleged intelligentsia had not yet discovered it, the 
best way to keep its legend alive was to encourage the mythology and the 
controversy about it. Increasingly, people wrote to ask me if Timothy Leary 



had written it, and I almost always told them he had, except on Fridays when 
I am more whimsical, in which case I told them it had been transmitted by a 
canine intelligence - vast, cool and unsympathetic - from the Dog Star, 
Sirius. 

Now, at last, the truth can be told. 

Actually, the Principia is the work of a time-traveling anthropologist 
from the 23rd Century. He is currently passing among us as a computer 
specialist, bon vivant and philosopher named Gregory Hill. He has also 
translated several volumes of Etruscan erotic poetry, under another pen- 
name, and in the 1 8th Century was the mysterious Man in Black who gave 
Jefferson the design for the Great Seal of the United States. 

I have it on good authority that he is one of the most accomplished 
time-travelers in the galaxy and has visited Earth many times in the past, 
using such cover-identities as Zeno of Elias, Emperor Norton, Count 
Cagliostro, Guillaume of Aquitaine, etc. Whenever I question him about 
this, he grows very evasive and attempts to persuade me that he is actually 
just another 20th Century Earthman and that all my ideas about his 
Extraterrestrial and extratemporal origin are delusions. Hah! I am not that 
easily deceived. After all, a time-traveling anthropologist would say just 
that, so that he could observe us without his presence causing culture- shock. 

I understand that he has consented to write an Afterward to this 
edition. He'll probably contradict everything I've told you, but don't believe 
a word he says fnord. He is a master of the deadpan put-on, the plausible 
satire, the philosophical leg-pull and all branches of guerilla ontology. 

For full benefit to the Head, this book should be read in conjunction 
with The Illuminoids by Neal Wilgus (Sun Press, Albuquerque, New 
Mexico) and Zen Without Zen Masters by Camden Benares (And/Or Press, 
Berkeley, California). "We are operating on many levels here", as Ken 
Kesey used to say. 

In conclusion, there is no conclusion. Things will go on as they 
always have, getting weirder all the time. 

Hail Eris. All hail Discordia. Fnord? 

-Robert Anton Wilson 
International Arms and Hashish Inc. 
Darra Bazar, Kohat 



5th edition introduction: 

by Kerry Thornley, Discordian Society Co-founder 

If organized religion is the opium of the masses, then disorganized 
religion is the marijuana of the lunatic fringe. 

Most disorganized of all religions, Discordianism alone understands 
that organization is the work of the Devil. Holy Chaos is the Natural 
Condition of Reality, contrary to popular belief. Theologians cite Order in 
the Universe as proof of a Supreme Intelligence, but a glance is enough to 
see that the stars are not actually in neat little rows. (Oh, sure, there is the 
Big Dipper and the Little Dipper - but if they were really connect-the-dot 
drawings there would be numbers next to the stars.) Theology is just a 
debate over who to frame for creating reality. What we imagine is order is 
merely the prevailing form of chaos. 

Every few thousand years some shepherd inhales smoke from a 
burning bush and has a vision or eats moldy rye bread in a cave and sees 
God. From then on their followers kill one another at the slightest 
provocation. Haunted houses called temples are built by one side and torn 
down by another - and then bloody quarrels continue over the crumbling 
foundations. 

Organized religion preaches Order and Love but spawns Chaos and 
Fury. Why? 

Because the whole Material Universe is exclusive property of the 
Greco-Roman Goddess of Chaos, Confusion, Strife, Helter- Skelter and 
Hodge-Podge. No Spiritual power is even strong enough to dent Her chariot 
fenders. No material force can resist the temptation of Her Fifth Intergalactic 
Bank of the Acropolis Slush Fund for Graft and Corruption. 

All this was revealed to me in an absolutely unforgettably miraculous 
event in 1958 or 1959 in a bowling alley in Friendly Hills or maybe Santa Fe 
Springs, California, witnessed by either Gregory Hill or Malaclypse the 
Younger or perhaps Mad Malik or Reverend Doctor Occupant or some guy 
who must have vaguely resembled one or another of them. 

With the help of a Chaosopher's Stone I found the Goddess Eris 
Discordia in my pineal gland (on Cosmic Channel Number Five) and ever 
since I have known the answers to all the mysteries of metaphysics, 
metamystics, metamorphics, metanoiacs and metaphorics. (Before that I 
didn't even know how to install a plastic trash can liner so it wouldn't fall 
down inside the first time somebody threw away garbage.) 



You, too can activate your pineal gland simply by reciting the entire 
contents of this book upon awakening each morning, rubbing sandalwood 
paste between your eyes each evening upon retiring, banging your forehead 
against the ground five times a day, refraining from harming cockroaches 
and meditating (defined as sitting around waiting for good luck). 

When your pineal gland finally lights up you will never again, as long 
as you live, have to relax. 

Eris Discordia will solve all your problems and She will expect you in 
return to solve all Her problems. In these very pages you will learn about 
converting infidels. Later on, you will be taught how to annoy heretics. You 
will also be required to resolve Zen-like riddles, such as: If Jesus was 
Jewish, then why did he have a Puerto Rican name? 

Once you become adept at leaning on backsliders, you will qualify for 
a calling. Maybe you will be a Chaosopher (who delivers commentaries on 
chaos) or perhaps, instead, a Chaoist (who goes around stirring up chaos) or, 
perchance, a Knower (who knows better than to do either one). 

But under no circumstances may you become a Prophet. We don't 
intend to jeopardize our nonprophet status. 

What we lack in Prophets, however, we make up for in Saints. Only a 
Pope may canonize a Saint, but every man, woman and child on this planet 
is a genuine and authorized Pope (genuine and authorized by the House of 
the Apostles of Eris). So you can ordain yourself - and anyone or anything 
else - a Saint. 

Times weren't always so easy. When in 1968 I first declared myself a 
Saint, Gregory Hill said, "That's impossible," insisting, "Only dead people 
can be Saints," adding, "and fictional characters," guessing, "You are neither 
one." 

But it happened that, although I was no longer a believer, I was still 
on the membership roles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. 
So Greg was too late. Me and all the other Mormons were already Saints - 
and some of us living ones - no matter what he said. 

Nowadays only the Mormons have more Saints than the Discordian 
Society. But we plan to catch up with them. Won't you please join our 
Sainthood Drive? Moral perfection isn't necessary for Discordian Sainthood. 
You just have to suffer a lot. 

So many other privileges of membership in our religion come to mind 
that I don't know where to begin. For instance, you don't have to get out of 
bed early on Sunday morning to attend church. You can sleep in. How many 
Christian denominations - for all their talk of brotherly love - are that 
compassionate? 



You can even be a Discordian in good standing without ever having to 
so much as look at another Discordian - early in the morning or any other 
time. That's an advantage to mail-order religion that the more conventional 
faiths try to play down. 

What is so unusual about Discordian Abnormail - as we call it - is 
decentralization. Don't contact me here at Orthodox Discordian Society 
Hindquarters! Send your letters, notes, relics, sacraments and writs of 
excommunication to one another. That, says Discordian Episkopos 01' Sam 
(36 Erskine Drive, Morristown, NJ 07960), is eristic abnormail - adding: 
"Unfortunately, the majority of eristic abnormail is nothing but inane gossip, 
masturbatory in-jokes, trivial variations of stale dogma, snide put-downs of 
those not weird in exactly the same was as 'us', and similar such garbage ad 
naseum; and that's good too!" (I like the way 01' Sam always keeps a 
positive attitude.) 

Our outreach program is called aneristic abnormail and is defined by 
01' Sam as "weird things sent in fun to those still trapped in the Region of 
Thud" - squares, that is. When some order-bound heathen makes an 
especially unenlightened public remark, that unsuspecting dolt is likely to 
receive a Jake - whole mail box full of weird shit from Discordians 
everywhere on the same day. "For maximum benefit," says 01' Sam, "a 
good Jake should be in response to a particularly gross manifestation of the 
Aneristic Delusion, not merely intended to chastise, but to teach and amuse 
as well (or else make them hopping mad). The best Jakes involve a lot of 
Discordians, all conspiring to contact the subject on Jake Day - a shining 
example of Discordian accord, as paradoxical as that sounds." (If you think 
that sounds paradoxical, wait until you hear about the Discordian accordion.) 

Another advantage to Discordianism over the world's other great 
religions is that we tell you about the Fendersons. While it is true that you 
don't have to be a Discordian before becoming a Fenderson, the Taoists - for 
instance - don't even know about the Fendersons. And those who know do 
not speak. 

Fenderson Discordian Graham Trievel explains that "a Fenderson is a 
member of a family you can join by saying you are one. Yes, anybody who 
wants to be a Fenderson can be a Fenderson. Just say these three words, 'I'm 
a Fenderson.' It's as simple as that." 

Genealogy buffs will be interested to know, "Our Fenderson 
forefather can be reached at: S.J. Glew, 561 1 Lehman Road, DeWitt, MI 
48820 Blame him." 

All Fendersons add Fenderson to their existing name or they use the 
last name of Fenderson with entirely new first and/or middle names. "For 



example, you can call me Graham Fenderson Trievel, Fenderson Graham 
Trievel, or Graham Trievel Fenderson." (And you can call me Saint Ignatius 
Fenderson.) 

But you must at all times keep in touch with other Fendersons. "This," 
says Fenderson, "is easy to accomplish as you can make anybody you want a 
Fenderson, even if they don't want to be one." 

Write Graham Fenderson Trievel about how to get a 1989 Fenderson 
family reunion baseball cap at Rt. 113, Box 481, Lionville, PA 19353. But 
he warns, "I'll be collecting names and addresses of Fendersons for possible 
future publication." 

If you become a Discordian and also want salvation in the Industrial 
Church of the SubGenius (Box 140306, Dallas TX 75214) you are free to 
maintain a duel membership. Or if you live outside of Texas (in some state 
where dueling is illegal), you can be an honorary SubGenius and a 
dishonorary Discordian both at once. 

You might even say SubGeniusism is our sister faith or brother 
religion - or at least our Marine-Corps buddy theology, because J.R. "Bob" 
Dobbs was my Marine Corps buddy in Atsugi, Japan (where he 
distinguished himself by shooting his own toe while on guard duty - 
although he was only aiming for a fly on the tip of his boot). Dobbs want on 
to become a supersalesman and trance medium who until his untimely 
assassination channeled Prescriptures that occasionally mentioned Eris 
Discordia, if not always as kindly as prudence would dictate. 

Out of these Prescriptures came the SubGenius Church - so named 
because you only qualify to join if your IQ is below genius. 

A pipe in his mouth and a maniacal gleam in his eyes were trademarks 
of "Bob" and so his fanatical cult sues for copyright violation anyone whose 
eyes gleam in a similar fashion. Other exciting features of the SubGenii 
include their spirited quest for Slack, their brave determination to be 
Overmen, their understandable disgust with Technoboredom, their 
unblushing Crass Commercialism and their keen pride in their Northern 
Tibetan abominable snowman ancestry. 

You can find out more by sending them your bank account. 

If, on the other hand, you would rather join the Bavarian Illuminati, 
you have to bury your bank account in a cigar box in your yard. One of their 
underground agents will find it and contact you. 

Our religion is so completely infiltrated with agents of the Ancient 
Illuminated Seers of Bavaria that if, for instance, you pass out Fair-Play-For- 
Switzerland flyers for us you are assured of rapid advancement to more 
important work for the Illuminati. 



Both the _Illuminatus!_ trilogy by Robert Shea and Robert Anton 
Wilson and the Illuminati Board Game by Steve Jackson mention the 
Discordian Society almost as often as they speak of the nefarious Bavarian 
Conspirators themselves. Prestige of intimate association with the Illuminati 
is enormous because they have absolutely ruled the whole world for the past 
five thousand years. 

Unlike the Illuminati, who are everywhere, the Right Reverend Jesse 
Sumps 's First Evangelical and Unrepentant Church of No Faith is an 
exclusive Discordian franchise. Upon receiving a precious Mao button that 
said, "We must have faith in the Party and we must have faith in the 
masses," Sump exclaimed: "No faith! No faith in the Party, no faith in the 
masses, no faith in God and no faith in the ruling class!" and thus the First 
Evangelical and Unrepentant Church of No Faith began. Jesse Sump has 
faith in Eris Discordia, though, "because everybody has just got to believe in 
something." 

Perhaps the chief difference between the Discordian Society and 
Sump's outfit is one of style. We got it. They don't. 

But if you like working yourself into a frenzy at camp meetings in 
order to foam at the mouth, speak in tongues, handle snakes, run moonshine 
and experience phantasmagoria, the No Faith Church will make you happy 
as a pig in mud. 

Of course, all the high-church glitter of the 
Paratheoianametamystichood of Eris Esoteric is not just yours for the asking. 
We solicit no donations, demand no tithes, charge no admission, levy no poll 
tax and run only a few nifty religious novelty stores on the side. But certain 
obligations adhere to the more hallowed manifestations of Discordianship. 

Eating hot dog buns is prohibited, except on Friday - when it is 
compulsory. Stepped on cockroaches will earn you no points with our 
Blessed Saint Gulik. You must discipline yourself under a certified 
Slackmaster until you are capable of drinking beer and watching television 
with total concentration. All bowling alleys are sacred to Discordians and, if 
necessary, you must give your life to protect them from desecration - if 
anyone ever decides to desecrate bowling alleys. Finally, you must not rest 
until all the sheep are brought into the fold. (And when we convert all the 
sheep we are going to the dogs next, then wolves, goats and, at the anointed 
hour, human beings.) 

Goddess also expects you to work on yourself. You must devote your 
full attention to every task you perform so you will realize - in a flash of 
sudden enlightenment - how confusing it is. You must master one Little 
Moron riddle after another until, with years of study, there is no longer any 



separation in your perception between subject and object, between you and 
the Little Moron. 

Then there are bigots, who will persecute you because they hate Eris 
Discordia, and have no better sense than to judge an entire religion by the 
behavior of a single deity. 

But before I was a Discordian, when I entered my room only to be 
reminded by its disarray that it was a mess, I felt a sense of defeat. These 
days when that happens I just say, "Hail Eris!" - our customary salute to any 
embodiment of chaos - and then I cheerfully carry on, secure in the 
knowledge that the constellations look no better. 

Before I was a Discordian, I wasted a lot of time arguing with 
evangelists about God and Jesus. Now they waste a lot of time arguing about 
Eris Discordia with me. 

Before I was a Discordian, I took life much too seriously. When you 
take life too seriously you start to wonder what the point of it all is. When 
you wonder what the point is in life, you fall into a trap of thinking there is 
one. When you think there is a point, you finally realize there is no point. 
And what point is there in living like that? Nowadays I skip the search for a 
point and find, instead, the punch lines. 

Before I was a Discordian, I was distressed by the inefficiency and 
inhumanity of organizations. Now I am vindicated by their inefficiency and 
inhumanity. 

Before I was a Discordian, I used to be afraid of my own shadow. Ah, 
but now my shadow is afraid of me! 

Having at last glimpsed the value of Discordianism, you are hereby 
ready to be awed by the importance of the little book you hold in your hands 
this very moment. 

Five years of Discordian Society activity transpired before the First 
Edition of Principia Discordia rolled off District Attorney Jim Garrison's 
mimeograph machine (without his knowledge) in New Orleans in 1964. That 
was the work of Gregory Hill and Lane Caplinger, a Discordian typist in the 
DA's office. 

During the next five years Greg produced bigger and funnier editions, 
with a little help from me (but not as much as the enemies of our faith 
suspect). 

By no means is the Principia our only scripture. All along Greg has 
been writing what he says is a summary of the Universe, but evidently it will 
be quite some time before he completes it. Additionally, there are piles and 
piles of Discordian leaflets and broadsides cranked out by zealous converts 
from everywhere - with new ones arriving in the mail each month - but 



Goddess only knows where they all are now or remembers what they said. 
There is also Chaos: Broadsheets of Ontological Anarchism by Hakim Bey 
(Grim Reaper Books) of the Unarmed Expropriation Committee of the John 
Henry McKay Society and Bishop of Persia (in Exile) of the Moorish 
Orthodox Church of America. But out most exalted testament of all is The 
Honest Book of Truth - of which there is, alas, only one copy locked away in 
the Closed Stacks of the Akashic Records. Only qualified Discordian 
Episkoposes with activated pineal glands may copy passages from it - and 
these may only be published when they can be shown beyond a reasonable 
doubt to have redeeming social value, such as by educating you or arousing 
purient interest. 

But this Fourth and Fifth Combined Edition of Principia Discordia is 
unquestionably the most influential of all the great, immortal works of 
significant literature our classic Greek Goddess has inspired. 

Who would even venture to guess how many wretched and thankless 
lives these few astonishing pages have deprived forever of meaningless 
purpose? Who can say how many seminarians read the Principia and decided 
to change vocations and become clowns, or many landlords it has caused to 
sell their estates and buy yachts or airplanes for smuggling marijuana, or 
how many politicians it has inspired to vanish alone into the high mountains 
and become sagacious hermits, or how many investment bankers it has 
turned into anarchists? 

Slim Brooks was just an ordinary merchant seaman dwelling in the 
New Orleans French Quarter until he read Principia Discordia. Then he 
became the mysterious Keeper of the Submarine Keys who would never tell 
anyone what submarine or why it was locked. 

Roger Lovin was just a dashing, talented and handsome con artist who 
was too shallow to settle into any one thing. But for years and years after he 
read the Principia, under his Discordian Name of Fang the Unwashed, he 
consistently and with unswerving devotion to the task excommunicated 
every new person any of the rest of us initiated into the Discordian Society. 

Robert Anton Wilson was just a Playboy advisor who wrote safe and 
insipid answers to inquiries from readers about the size and present 
whereabouts of John Dillinger's penis until he read this remarkable tract. 
Then he became Mord the Malignant and wrote a whole library full of 
widely read books about the Illuminati and how to make Synchronicity work 
for you in finding quarters on the sidewalk. 

Mike Gunderloy was just a compulsive reader of fanzines until the 
fateful day he read Principia Discordia (under the mistaken impression it 



was another fanzine). Now he is Ukulele the Short of the Discordian Society 
and big-time publisher of Factsheet Five. 

Elayne Wechsler was just some broad with a funny bone until she 
read the Principia and asked the question that led to my great definition of 
theology. "Why," she wanted to know, "is the Discordian Society, which 
worships a female divinity, so male dominated?" Recalling that more 
women than men are devout about Christianity with its male God and His 
male Son, I decided that people like religions that blame reality on the 
opposite sex. So let that be a lesson to us males. Behind every great idea 
there is a broad with a funny bone. 

So there is no telling how much happier and better adjusted reading 
this book will make you. Principia Discordia is both a psychological laxative 
and a spiritual corn plaster. Unsolicited testimonials can be mailed to me in 
care of Out of Order - the sectual organ of the Orthodox Discordian Society 
- at Box 5498, Atlanta GA 30307. 

How Discordianism will change you is not, however, the real 
question. Anybody can be changed by something they read. No wit, 
imagination, creativity, talent or energy is required for that much. How will 
you change the Discordian Society is the real question - a question you 
should be asking yourself from page 00001 all the way through page 00075, 
a question you should keep asking yourself long after you reverently close 
the covers of Principia Discordia, wrap it carefully in silk, solemnly return it 
to its golden box and bow five times after resting it in its place of honor on 
your altar. 

Most neophyte Discordians are either too cautious or too serious. 
They constantly ask permission to do this or that like there are rules hidden 
away somewhere in the folds of our robes of office. Or they labor at length 
over ponderous metaphysical schemata with no gags in them, as if the sole 
ironclad rule of our Society isn't that you have to be funny, as much as 
possible and as often as possible - or else. 

But we are indulgent toward monks who catch on in due time. Seldom 
do I beat anyone with my trusty staff - and certainly never without their help. 

On the subject of personal encounters with other Discordians - and 
sometimes even the most careful among us cannot avoid them - keep in 
mind the lodge grips of our Disorder. Somewhere in the following pages you 
will learn the Turkey Curse. Among Zen Buddhists it is said, "When you 
meet another bodhisattva on the road, greet him with neither words nor 
silence." That leaves you with a vast selection of barnyard noises from 
which to choose. 



But as you crow like a rooster or quack like a duck or moo like a cow, 
scrutinize your brother or sister Discordian with alert interest - never 
cracking a smile - to see how he or she will respond. An oinking reply that is 
too loud indicates a swaggering bravado which falls short of mature eristic 
enlightenment, but that is far better than a feeble and spiritless neigh. 

Perhaps best of all is simply uttering a mondo. That is like picking up 
the telephone when it rings and saying, "Wrong number, please!" However 
much you think about a mondo it makes no sense - even clamps and pliers 
cannot get hold of it. Yet at the same time, if it is a good mondo, the longer 
you think about it the more it seems light it ought to make sense - although 
you can never figure out why. Beyond that much, a truly great mondo sticks 
to your mind like hot pine pitch - gumming up your thought process for 
weeks on end. 

When the Zen Master Joshu was still a monk, his master - Nansen - 
struck him in answer to some dumb remark or other. Joshu grabbed 
Nansen' s arm, glared at the master and said, "From now on do not hit people 
by mistake!" Nansen replied as follows: "The whole world can tell a snake 
from a dragon, but you cannot fool a Zen monk." That's a genuinely great 
mondo. 

From this much you can see why meeting other Discordians in person 
can be harrowing. Besides the pen is only mighter than the sword at a range 
greater than five feet. When the SubGenius Church held its first Devival, 
Reverend Ivan Stang of the Dallas Clench expressed surprise at how nice 
and polite all the fans of his Dobbswork were, adding, "It's almost 
disappointing." Still, the wise take no unnecessary chances. 

As you can tell, we are much indebted to other religions. Not only 
SubGeniusism and Zen and Taoism have inspired us, but also 
Zoroastrianism - which practiced fire worship. We too, pay homage to fire in 
certain circumstances - such as when it is burning the writings of false 
prophets or is producing inhalable quantities of cannabis smoke. Our 
tradition is rooted in a medieval rite called the Mass of the Travesty in which 
marijuana was the sacrament. According to The Emperor Wears No Clothes 
by Jack Herer, the Mass of the Travesty "can be liked to a Mel Brooks, 
Second City-TV, Monty Python, or Saturday Night Live - e.g., Father Guido 
Sarducci-type group - doing irreverent, farcical or satirical take-offs on the 
dogmas, doctrine, indulgences, and rituals of the R.C. Ch. mass and/or its 
absolute beliefs." Unfortunately, the humorless Roman Catholic Church 
authorities of the 15th century thought the Mass of the Travesty was 
heretical - and that was the true story of how marijuana got its bad name, 
which it has never since been able to shake off. 



Actually, the Mass of the Travesty may have been a disguised 
remnant of the original Greek Discordianism. For history indicates there 
must have been, among those ancient ones, Erisian Mysteries. (But if so, 
they were never solved.) Eris tells us they existed and were the work of 
Malaclypse the Elder, a mystery writer by trade who also tutored the 
philosopher Diogenes in lamp maintenance, barrel keeping, rock rolling, 
public masturbation and Cynicism - until Diogenes was with it enough to 
fend for himself. 

No outpouring of gratitude would be complete without acknowledging 
the desert religions of the Middle East which keep that part of the world 
alive with action to this day - and from which we inherited our fanatical 
determination to be at all times, right or wrong, as unreasonable as possible. 
Translated into Latin this commitment is the motto on our coins, seals, rings, 
plaques and tomb stones: Semper Non Sequitur! 

Much of our grandeur is also derived from Hinduism. From the Aryan 
mystery cult we acquired our soma-drinking habit. Soma, in turn, fortified us 
with the confidence that we are better than people who look different than 
us. From Verdanta we learned how to Sanskrit our temple walls. Tantra 
taught us our many strange sex secrets. That staying up all night to smoke 
ganja and dance and sing can be passed off as religious activity was 
something we learned from the Bauls of Bengal. But surely the cult of Kali, 
Cosmic Mother, Giver and Taker of Life, resembles Discordianism most. 
We asked Eris about this and She said Kali is short for the Greek Kallisti, 
which was engraved on the party-crashing Golden Apple of Discord dealt 
with later on in this informative volume. She added that Her own full name 
is actually Eris Kallisti Discordia, but took the Fifth Amendment when we 
asked if this means She and Kali are one in the same. 

Our borrowings from Christianity are so obvious that mention of them 
is almost insulting to whatever modicum of intelligence you possess. But 
from that tradition we gained our crafty distrust of the reality principle as 
well as the rather singular notion of an Only Begotten Son. 

We asked Goddess if She, like God, had an Only Begotten Son. She 
assured us that She did and gave His name as Emperor Norton I - whom we 
assumed was probably some Byzantine ruler of Constantinople. Diligent 
research eventually turned up the historical Norton, as we call Him, in the 
holy city of San Francisco - where He walked his faithful dog along Market 
Street scarcely more than a century ago. 

Gregory Hill has since become the world's foremost authority on 
Joshua A. Norton who, on September 17th of 1859, crowned Himself the 
Emperor of the United States and Protector of Mexico. Just before then, He 



vanished for a number of days - perhaps into the wilderness where maybe 
He was tempted by the Devil, probably to organize His life and get His 
affairs in order. 

Certainly they looked like that's what they needed. For on the day 
before his disappearance Norton, heretofore little more than a successful 
businessman, cornered the rice market - only to be foiled by the unscheduled 
arrival of a whole shipload of rice from the Orient. A lesser man would have 
been thrown out of step by that event which for Him became a step to the 
throne. 

When the U.S. Congress failed to obey His Majesty's Royal Order to 
assemble in the San Francisco Opera House, Norton fired every last member 
of that rebellious organization. Thus, the people of San Francisco knew 
better than to incite His Imperial wrath. His Royal Decrees were printed free 
of charge in the newspapers, the currency He issued was accepted in the 
saloons, local shopkeepers paid the modest taxes He occasionally demanded 
and on at least one occasion a tailor furnished Him with a new set of Royal 
finery. 

Although a madman, Norton wrote letters to Abraham Lincoln and 
Queen Victoria which they took seriously. 

One night a gang of vigilantes gathered for a pogrom against San 
Francisco's Chinatown. All that stood in their way was the solitary figure of 
Norton. A sane man would not have been there in the first place. A rational 
man would have tried to reason with them. A moralist would have scolded 
them. A man as daft as Norton usually seemed would have loudly ordered 
them to cease and desist in the name of His Royal Imperial authority. All 
such tacks would probably have been futile, and Norton resorted to none of 
them. 

He simply bowed His head in silent prayer. The vigilantes dispersed. 

Discordians believe everybody should live like Norton. 

So write your legislative representatives demanding harsh laws with 
teeth in them requiring people of all faiths - especially Christians and 
especially on Sunday - to live as Joshua A. Norton did. 

About five years ago I had a dream in which someone was yelling, 
"SIGNS IN THE SKY!" When I looked up I saw balloons and blimps 
carrying aloft big neon letters that said: "NORTON DIED! WANT NO 
DEAD!" 

But when Emperor Norton died, tens of thousands of San Franciscans 
flocked to His full Masonic funeral. Pilgrimages to His grave are still 
common. 



Perhaps occasionally the soul of Emperor Norton descends once more 
into the world to momentarily inhabit the body of an otherwise 
undistinguished infidel. One day I was sitting in a hamburger stand in 
rundown midtown Atlanta. A burned-out speed freak at a nearby table 
looked at me with a pleasant smile and said, "I'm King of the Universe. I 
don't know what I'm doing in a place like this." 

And perhaps that's the big attraction of our faith. If you want, you can 
be King of the Universe. Jesse Sump is Ancient Abbreviated Calif, of 
California. I am Bull Goose of Limbo and President of the Fair-Play- for- 
Switzerland Committee. Camden Benares is Pretender to the Throne of 
Lesbos. Greg Hill is Polyfather of Virginity- in-Gold. Sabal Etonia is High 
Constable of Constantinople. You can declare yourself Archbishop of 
Abyssinia or Curator of the Moon - we don't care but your mailman will be 
impressed. 

According to L.A. Rollins in Lucifer's Lexicon a Discordian is one 
who likes to wear Emperor Norton's old clothes. If anything could be added 
to that definition, I cannot think what. 

As I indicated earlier, my own background is Mormon. Since few are 
familiar with the off-beat creeds of that unusual sect, Mormonism doesn't 
land itself to broad satire readily. Yet the temptation is forever with me to 
swipe such startling rituals as, say, baptism of the dead. 

Based on the rule that you cannot enter the Celestial Kingdom unless 
your name is recorded in Salt Lake City, all who passed away without the 
benefit - at any time in the past - must, for their own good, be sooner or later 
baptized. (So strong a conviction is this among the Saints that when my 
uncle died and left a lot of unpaid bills my Aunt Lena made off with his 
church records one day while doing volunteer secretarial work, secure in the 
faith his soul would be locked outside the Pearly Gates until or unless she 
brought them back.) 

But Mormon baptism of the dead is a cop-out because in spite of 
stressing the importance of complete physical immersion for the living, they 
dunk the deceased by proxy. A Discordian Church of Ladder Night Saints 
could open graves for the purpose of submerging skeletons and corpses. 
Then it could lower them back down before dawn. That would give us an 
exciting mission which would heighten our commitment by inviting 
persecution - a function served in the early days of Latter Day Saint Church 
history by polygamy. 

Technically the Mormons practiced only polygyny - one husband with 
a plurality of wives. Polyandry - one wife with more than one husband - is 
also a form included by the generic term of polygamy. Discordians are free 



to practice all varieties of polygamy and polymorphous perversity as well. 
Marriage is an institution which should adjust itself to the needs of 
individuals and not the other way around. Any Discordian Episkopos may 
perform group marriage ceremonies, short-duration marriages, same-sex 
marriages and, with special permission, straight monogamous weddings. 

If Mormonism is out of the mainstream, it still does not rival in that 
way an obscure Japanese religion called Perfect Liberty. May Goddess damn 
me if I am putting you on: Perfect Liberty teaches salvation through playing 
golf (as close to our own theory of salvation through nonsense as anyone 
else has come). For that reason Perfect Liberty owns many of the regular 
golf courses that dot the U.S. and Japan. 

Personally, I think we Discordians could work out a similar path to 
liberation via surfing. That sounds like a program that would work for me. 
Unlike Will Rogers, I cannot honestly say I've never met a man I didn't like. 
But certainly I have never met a surfer I didn't like. 

When Pope Paul excommunicated Saint Christopher - who happens to 
be the Patron Saint of Surfers - for what seems to us like the rather 
negligible fault of never existing, the Discordian Society adopted him, along 
with Saint Patrick (discharged for the same reason at the same time). 

Already an experienced beach bum, with many years on the sands of 
Florida's Sun Coast, I think I might very well spend the twilight years of my 
life in the holy land of California mastering the graceful art of riding a 
surfboard. When I am ready to take on disciples, you can probably find me 
somewhere along the stretch between Venice and San Diego, praying to Eris 
for surf. But joining me will entail sacrifices because a Discordian surfer 
will be prohibited from owning anything but a surfboard, trunks, a 
toothbrush, a beach towel and an automobile (maybe a hot rod or dune 
buggy). Because surfing is not just a sport; it's a lifestyle. And 
Discordianism is not just a religion; it is a mental illness. 

Should you arrive too late, during the first many years of my next 
lifetime I shall be found in the Simon Bolivar School for Boys of the 
Discordian Convent of San Medellin, Ciudad de Sandoz, Columbia - where 
instead of beating pupils for misconduct, the nuns give them blow jobs and 
then threaten delinquents with a termination of favors. (At least that's what 
Discordian San Juan Batista, Keeper of the Seven Veils, tells us.) 

But enough of this vocational planning. 

If the Discordian Society is to become the world's next great cargo 
cult it will be due to the efforts of the House of Mirrors. Not only have we 
nunneries, but recognized and accepted heresies, powerful lobbies complete 
with popcorn concessions and everything from progressive belaboring 



unions to square sewing circles. Many are mentioned in the /Principia/ 
proper and I don't think it proper to repeatedly engage in repetitive 
repetition by repeating things repeated later on because I hate redundancy. 

But there are also some new ones, such as the Ignorant Rescue 
Mission with its rousing slogans: "Rescue the ignorant! Save the dead! Cast 
out lepers!" (Members dress in old band or military brass-button jackets and 
help attractive females get adequate sex.) 

There are also the Brunswick Shriners, Moral Regurgitation, Citizens 
against Infant Sexuality, the Crack House Integration of the Black Lotus 
Society, the Misplaced Bolivian Wild Animal Relocation Fund, the Laurel 
Foundation for the Recognition of Unique Achievement, the Gould 
Charitable Trust for Dynamic Population Control, the Patrio-Psychotic 
Anarcho-Materialism Study Group and the Sovereign State of Confusion. 

Also not mentioned in the Principia - our many business ventures. No 
church likes to engage in the unseemly practice of boasting of its great 
wealth, but since I am being paid by the word I will list the names of our 
financial assets: the Brooklyn Bridge Holding Company, the Umbrella 
Corporation, the Spare Change Investment Corporation, Junk Mail 
Assossiates, San Andreas Shoreline Properties, the Fast Buck Riding 
Academy, the Informed Sources News Syndicate, Fly-by-Night Drug 
Transport, Infinite Vistas, Ltd., Everglades Land Investment, Cosa Nostra 
Amusements of New Jersey and the Laughing Buddha Jesus Ranch of Pinga 
Grande, Texas, Inc. 

No doubt you are a little confused. Jesus, God and the Devil get such 
frequent billing in our religion - whereas most other faiths never advertise 
the competition. That's mostly because of the neoGnostical influence of 
SubGeniusism. 

Jesus was not the Son of God at all but - as He says again and again in 
The Bible - He was the Son of Man. Actually, His mission was to warn us 
against God - a laser-armed computer-robot space station sent to regulate or 
destroy humanity. (Our very own Dr. Van Mojo finally got rid of YHVH-1 
by sticking hat pins in a tetherball, but that's another story.) 

As for the Devil - that is somebody our religion tried to do without for 
a long time. We didn't think we needed a Devil, especially with Eris 
Discordia's reputation being what it is already. 

But religions without devils are like politicians without enemies or 
perpetual motion machines. If they are possible, they might just work. But 
who will ever know? 

Our Devil came through the back door after introducing himself as 
Mr. Greyface. You will read about him in "The Curse of Greyface." After 



blaming the first few evils on him we realized how handy he was and gave 
him a lifelong membership before we determined his true identity. 

What really fooled us is that his face is gray - and that's far from 
being his only resemblance to J.R. "Bob" Dobbs, the SubGenius Messiah of 
Mediocrity. But then so many gray-flanneled American males look like 
"Bob", that is hardly evidence of conspiracy. 

One difference: Greyface never smiles except when he is showing you 
how stupid you are; "Bob" always smiles except when he is showing you 
how stupid you are. For that reason the SubGenii call Greyface the Anti- 
"Bob", but in both our churches seers and sages know he is the Devil. 

No matter whether he calls himself Greyface or the Anti-"Bob" he 
acts like the Devil, because his most famous line is: "Let me organize it for 
you!" 

But no doubt you are also curious about Eris. Where does she hang 
out these days - now that Olympus has gone tourist? 

Eris Discordia is in Limbo, where all we virtuous pagans and our gods 
and goddesses go between lifetimes. Think of Key West in the off-season 
and you've got it. 

Imagine an open-air bar at about ten in the morning. An aging 
barefoot Greek beauty with an Art Garfunkel hairdo is giving Zeus, the 
bartender, a hard time with a barbed wit that always leaves him bereft of any 
retort besides an extended middle finger. 

Another attraction of Limbo is a nonstop party for the faithful, but 
Zeus has child support bills and Eris never was much of a party animal, 
contrary to popular belief. 

Nor will you find any SubGenii at that party, or anywhere else in 
Limbo. With bikers and Nazis - if they were good Nazis - skinheads and 
pillars of the Church of the SubGenius go to Vahallah. 

Bad people of every persuasion go to the Region of Thud. 

A sprawling astral subdivision where there is nothing to do but eat and 
watch television and where all the houses, yards and people look pretty 
much alike, Thud keeps up with the Joneses. Most Christians are there, but 
in their creed it is called Paradise. 

Only souls who, in the eyes of Eris, went out of their way to be a pain 
in the ass during their earthly sojourns are in Hell. Harry J. Aslinger 
qualifies. But still, the perils of Hell are exaggerated. Fire and brimstone are 
sources of heating during cold snaps, but our human rights group, Amnasty 
Interfactional, reports that nothing in Hell is any worse than the hideous 
shade of pink on its walls. 



There are also such things as Nirvana - an exclusive resort for 
extinguished Zen Masters - and the Happy Hunting Grounds, where 
traditional Native American braves and warriors are the forest rangers. Dead 
cops (and Gurdjieffians who forgot to remember themselves) go to the 
Moon, a big precinct station in the sky, controlled by space aliens, where 
there are twice as many laws as here - converted to its present use from what 
was originally a slain space monster's hollow titanium skill. 

You can only be asking yourself at this point how these guys could 
possibly be taking all this shit seriously. If we weren't serious, do you really 
think we would have published so many tracts and pamphlets at our own 
expense for so many years? Do people who are not serious stay awake nights 
thinking up new theologies and scriptures? Who but serious fanatics would 
have risked their lives by exposing their work to the readership of our first 
mass-circulation publisher, Loompanics? 

Let me answer by asking what being serious has to do with believing 
what we write. But that isn't to say we don't at least believe in Goddess - 
even if we are skeptical of what She says. But that is now, after more than 
three decades of Discordianism. No way did we think there was an Eris 
Discordia at first. But as Greg says, "At first I thought I was fucking around 
with Eris. Now I see that Eris is fucking around with me." 

A Discordian must believe that Eris Discordia rules the Material 
Universe - and that She won it from God in a divorce suit during the 
Beforelife, and that the French anarchist Pierre Joseph Proudhon was Her 
attorney at the trial, and that nobody is Her Prophet, and that eating hotdog 
buns is a sin. All else is a matter of individual conscience. 

Graven images and icons and pictures of Eris are all right as long as 
they are flattering. 

Safe sex - with a condom, rubber gloves and a wet suit is fine as long 
as you don't fall in love. 

You may covet your neighbor's ass - providing your neighbor is into 

it. 

You may drink, but not to escape problems. (Like the Maltafarians of 
the SubGenius Church, you may only drink to create problems.) 

There is no prohibition against prayer - which is not to say we think it 
is a wise activity. 

You don't have to believe in Eristic Avatars to be a Discordian, but it 
helps. Eristic Avatars are sent down into Reality, the original Rorschach, for 
the purpose keeping things from becoming so well ordered that they stop 
working. This they often accomplish by insisting that certain arbitrary 
interpretations of reality are the only valid ones. That causes Strife which 



results in Confusion which revitalizes Holy Chaos. Most Eristic Avatars 
display certain signs by which they can be certified, such as employment as 
civil servants. So far, the most successful Eristic Avatar has been Confucius. 
Eristic Avatars can also be ascertained by the fact that they are always 
ignorant of their mission and have no idea they are serving Eris or, for that 
matter, that they are even promoting confusion. 

That is made possible by the Law of Eristic Escalation, of which you 
must be innocent to serve as Eristic Avatar. (For an unknown reason, it does 
not work as well for those of us who are guilty of it.) 

This Law pertains to any arbitrary or coercive imposition of order. It 
is: Imposition of Order = Escalation of Chaos. 

Fenderson's Amendment adds that the tighter the order in question is 
maintained, the longer the consequent chaos takes to escalate, BUT the more 
it does when it does! 

Armed with the Law of Eristic Escalation and Fenderson's 
Amendment any imbecile - not just a sociologist - can understand politics. 

So I will translate into the lingua franca of the Western world: An 
imposition of order creates a chaos deficit, which compounds until it is paid 
off (by enduring all the outstanding chaos). 

Of course, Eris thinks all chaos is outstanding. But we mortals find 
too much of a good thing a little overwhelming. Thus we cringe when we 
encounter an anerism - a pronouncement, that is, which is innocent of the 
Law of Eristic Escalation. 

If you hear that outlawing prostitution will eradicate rape, you are 
listening to an anerism - a manifestation of Aneristic Delusion. (If you read 
"The Sacred Chao" on pages 00049 and 00050 - instead of skipping over it 
in the recommended way - you will comprehend the anamysticmetaphorics 
of aneristics.) 

An anerism nearly always enters the world through the mouth of a 
politician - but it can come by way of any authority figure such as a minister 
or a teacher or a parent or a boss or Ronald McDonald. 

"We need more laws with stiffer penalties to rid our community of 
drugs," says an innocent pawn of Eris. To be sure, these laws make 
smuggling and selling and buying drugs more risky. That, in turn, drives up 
their prices - thus making them more profitable. So more money and work 
goes into expanding the market for the contraband - in keeping with the Law 
of Eristic Escalation. 

Or, as the Taoist sage Chuang Tzu simply said, "The more laws there 
are, the more crime there is." 



(Identification and elucidation of anerisms is a favorite pastime of 
politically conscious Discordians - who note that the whole text of my 
"Epistle to the Paranoids" on page 00069 is a psychological anerism. 
Goddess punished me for it, about five years later, by turning me into a 
paranoid myself. A conspiracy helped Her. As of this writing, I am still 
paranoid - according to my friends.) (Or are they my enemies?) 

Proliferation of crime in the wake of multiplication of laws is more 
than a matter of expanded definition. Governments are impositions of order 
designed to discourage theft and killing. But they wind up taking more in 
taxes than all the freelance crooks around could steal. Their wars involve 
more killing than all the meanest toughs and hoodlums can hope to rival. 

Laws were unknown to the True People of Old, says Chuang Tzu. All 
during the paleolithic and the neolithic there could hardly have been any 
laws, because the cave paintings in France and Spain depict no battle scenes. 

We know that in the time of Moses many laws did not seem necessary 
or desirable because the second time he came down from Mount Sinai he 
said: "The good news is I got Him down to ten; the bad news is that one of 
them is still THOU SHALT NOT COMMIT ADULTERY." 

In Limbo there are only five laws: 1) No making anybody do anything 
they don't want, except mind their own business; 2) No shitting or pissing in 
the streets; 3) No spitting on the floors; 4) No undated notices on the bulletin 
board; 5) No eating of hotdog buns. That sounds like a program that will 
work for me because there is nothing in there against swiping jokes. 

Nearly all the graphics in Principia Discordia, by the way, were ripped 
off. (I don't know why, because Greg and I are both passable artists.) The 
Discordian Society does not condone plagiarism. (Our rates for ills are quite 
reasonable.) Discordians hold all unoriginality in contempt. (Our familiarity 
with Discordian themes is unsurpassable.) Henceforth, no Discordian shall 
rip off graphics. (Contact me, or Greg, for your eristic artistic needs.) 

All I can say in our defense is at least we were honest about it. As we 
reached the end of the Third Edition, Greg pasted in a little blurb that 
credited the graphics to Rip-Off Press - which he snipped out of something 
that was actually printed by Rip-Off Press. How's that for a rip-off? 

You will also notice an unusual number of unusual rubber stampings 
scattered about among the following pages. That was Greg showing off his 
rubber stamp collection. Few hobbies are as psychologically gratifying - 
especially when some bureaucrat is making you wait, with his or her back to 
you for a moment - as collection rubber stamps. This is also an exciting way 
to recoup some of your tax losses. But you must abide by the laws of the 
Rubber Stamp Congress. All Discordians are permitted to collect rubber 



stamps provided they don't mention the Discordian Society if they are 
caught. Just point out to them that among people of all faiths stamp 
collecting is a popular hobby. And tell them your religious preference is 
none of their business. Tell them that collecting stamps in the name of your 
nameless religion is your Constitutional right and then, to make your point, 
take the Fifth Amendment. They will find themselves in a legalistic 
quandary. 

On most occasions mentioning your Discordian Society affiliation is 
perfectly acceptable. If perchance, you are idiotic enough to somehow 
foolishly blunder and end up in the military, insist they stamp 
DISCORDIAN on your dog tags. Because we are sick and tired of hearing 
there are no Discordians in foxholes. 

You might also wish to list "Discordian" as your religion on job 
applications - especially if you are already on unemployment and don't want 
the damned jobs anyhow. 

A secret method of identifying your Discordianship for the benefit of 
other Discordians is by wearing a pull-off aluminum beer-can tab, strung 
through its ring, around your neck. That is called an All-Seeing Eye of Eris 
(complete with Tear) and it will help other members of the Discordian 
Society keep out of your way. 

Or if you are an extrovert - and are not even ashamed of it - you can 
get up on a soap box and rant for Goddess right out in public. Personally I 
prefer standing on a wooden box but, anyway, you get at least five points for 
every rant you deliver. Extra points are awarded for handling hecklers with 
aplomb - or with anything else besides your fists. 

A secret of dealing with hecklers, incidentally, was imparted to me by 
a professional rabble rouser who used to speak in Hyde Park. You memorize 
a bunch of standardized put-downs good for all occasions. So no matter what 
your tormentor says, you can fire back with something like: "Hot air makes 
a balloon go up. What's holding you down?" 

Another secret of ranting was revealed by Rev. Ivan Stang when, of a 
rejected submission to The Stark Fist, he said: "It wandered, but not 
enough." A fine rant doesn't just wander, it positively meanders. (Use this 
introduction as a model.) Keep changing the subject so your listeners, with 
their short attention spans, won't get bored. If you change themes between 
45 and 72 times a minute (a rhythm close to the human heartbeat) - and 
mystify them by mixing metaphors - pretty soon those suckers will be putty 
in the palm of your hand at your feet wrapped around your little finger. 

You can also learn a great deal by studying magnificent orators of the 
past. Huey P. Long taxed Standard Oil ten dollars for each barrel they 



pumped in Louisiana and then gave them back 90% of it under the table. 
Aaron Burr shot Alexander Hamilton. 

Mark Anthony kept saying, "...but these are honorable men," all 
through his speech. Remember how effective that selective repetition was in 
swaying the emotions of the actors in Shakespeare's play who were cast as 
Roman citizens. 

Do not for a moment think you cannot be an exceptional orator if you 
can just find some way to keep repeating yourself hypnotically and changing 
the subject of your speech frequently at the same time. 

Winston Churchill pointed out another attribute of good rhetoric: it is 
sincere. You must yourself really be against the Germans buzz-bombing 
London before you can persuade the English people it is a rotten notion. 

Natural aptitude also plays its part. America has known no greater 
public speaker than Franklin D. Roosevelt, whose son once quipped, "Father 
wanted to be the bride at every wedding and the corpse at every funeral." 
And that's important to keep in mind, because if you want to be the bride at 
every funeral and the corpse at every wedding you just are not made of the 
right ingredients. Your timing is off. 

In that case you could have better luck with eyeball-to-eyeball 
conversations, the versatile art of one-on-one seduction which you want to 
learn anyway. Here, too hypnotic repetition is a key to unlimited potential. 
Pick any theme out of the air for repeating - a word, a name or a number will 
do. Let us say, for this example, that you choose the number five into your 
pitch. Again and again, five times five, over and over, drive that mother 
home until your victim is entranced in the Fifth Dimension. Then dazzle 
them with all the techniques in "A Primer for Erisian Evangelists" on page 
00065. 

Such mood setters as lighting and music are also important. For 
maximum results, illuminate the room with strobe lights. Play Beethoven's 
Fifth Symphony in the background. They will be putty eating out of your 
hand. 

If you are repelled by having anything to do with human beings 
whatsoever - as individuals or in groups - then you were probably meant to 
be a great Discordian writer such as myself. 

That being the case, my advice to you is consider that rousing literary 
form known as the manifesto. Not only should you read The Communist 
Manifesto so you can find our how to get bankers to finance your activities, 
you should also study the lesser-known but equally great specimens of this 
genre. What especially comes to mind in this respect is that underground 



classic anonymous authorship, "Manifesto of the Artistic Elite of the 
Midwest." 

As it has not yet been anthologized, I reproduce it here in full just as it 
appeared in issue #2 of False Positive (c/o Donna Kossy, Box 953, Allston, 
MA 02134): 

Manifesto of the Artistic Elite of the Midwest 

Artistic elite is a misnomer. We claim unity with the American 
Midwest where we were born and raised. We support the secession of 
the Midwest from the faltering carcass of the American way. We feel 
that the Midwest should sign its own treaties and create its own 
alliances. We support liberation for Quebec! We don't believe in the 
balance of terror hypothesis and wish to be counted out of all future 
nuclear war. We believe in the sanity and stability of the Midwest and 
refute those of either coast who see the heartland as oppressive, 
backward, uncultured (we are redneck, motherfucker), etc. This is 
propaganda created by the intellectual power elite of the East in their 
cynical and ruthless attempt to keep the chains on middle america. We 
claim solidarity with the Third World as an exploited people! As one 
of the richest Third World nations we vow to beat our Winebagos in 
plowshares in order to do our part in the growing Third World 
alliance. We call for the cessation of the telecommunications 
monopoly and destruction of all over the air methods of 
propagandizing. No more Lucy. No more Beaver. No more corporate 
propagandizing for the consumerist ethic. Free TV! A new localized 
media system will be created. No more sensationalist news coverage. 
Constant and open exchange of ideas and a refutation of present mass- 
subscribed theories of the free exchange ideas. No more enslavement 
to the Marlboro cowboy! No more enslavement to the false illusion of 
American individuality. Real individuality, not hype. No more 
Charlie's Angels. No more escapism. This is a call for the Midwest 
peoples to be concerned with their own lives, not the lives the West 
thinks we have and the East demands we have. This is a call for 
solidarity of all Midwestern peoples so that we can refute the ideas of 
the East, to call a halt to the convenient image of the Midwest as a 
passive land filled with bumpkins and hayseeds. Of easily led puppets, 
of a land easily dominated by the ideas and wills of our English 
speaking cousins. We're not your puppets anymore! We need to 
restructure our Eastern dominated universities. Solidarity with the 
Canadian Midlands. Solidarity with the Ukraine! An end to the 



industrial monopoly of the world's resources. An end to the blight of 
consumerism. An end to the present sectioning of the world and unity 
with all oppressed peoples! 

Sponsored by the Organization of Indiana Artistic Elites. 

Note the presence here, in spite of a lack of explicit Discordianism, of 
all the characteristics of an excellent manifesto: mixed emotions expressed 
with all the vitriolic vehemence of unmixed emotions. 

So if there is a cause about which you are ambivalent, do like Karl 
Marx did. Pen its manifesto. 

No Discordian Manifesto yet exists. We need at least five. That will 
generate controversy and confuse Greyface. 

My own favorite Holy Name - Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst - functions 
in that way. It is a walking identity crisis. Anybody can say or do anything in 
the name of Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst. For better or worse, that never fails 
to confuse the authorities. 

This tradition started in 1960 when I was basic training clerk in 
Marine Air Base 1 1 . 1 typed in the Ravenhurst moniker on a training lecture 
roster, listing him as a truck driver in motor transport - serial number 
1369697, rank: private. 

When Ravenhurst, Omar K., failed to answer the role call somebody 
called the captain in charge of motor transport to find out where Ravenhurst 
was. Of course nobody in the motor pool ever heard of any such private. 

Motor transport called administration. No Ravenhurst on record there, 
either. A clerk-typist from administration Corporal Chadwick, came by to 
ask me about the mysterious Marine. 

Upon returning to his desk, Chadwick completed an IRC card - a 
condensed record - which would have to do until Ravenhurst' s entire file 
arrived from his last duty station: Marine Barracks, East British Outer 
Cambodia. 

An unusual man, this Ravenhurst - with his IQ of 157. How many 
other truck drivers spoke 1 7 languages but, in ten years of service, had never 
been recommended for promotion? 

You would imagine that one glance at such statistics would arouse 
suspicion. But some days later there occurred within my earshot a 
conversation between two lieutenants and the swaggering staff sergeant who 
headed basic training (who, so as to protect his identity from ridicule, I shall 
call Karen Elliot instead of Sergeant Garcia). 

"Where do you figure he learned 1 7 languages - including Upper and 
Lower Swahili?" one of the officers wondered aloud. 



"I'll bet his parents were missionaries," contributed Karen Elliot. 

"Most men make private first class in about six months. This guy has 
been a private for ten years! I'm going to recommend him for promotion," 
announced the other lieutenant. 

"You better have a talk with him first, sir," Karen Elliot warned. "You 
just never can tell about them intelligent guys." 

Chadwick, who was lurking nearby, suddenly shouted: "THERE HE 
IS! THAT'S HIM! THAT'S RAVENHURST RIGHT THERE!" 

A big chunky truck driver whose nickname was Buddha happened to 
be dampening the dust in that vicinity with a water-tank equipped with a 
sprinkler in back. 

Eager to score some points with the officers, Karen Elliot ran over and 
yelled at the Buddha. 

Buddha stopped the truck and shut off the engine and then said, 
"What?" 

"YOU WON'T GROW ANY GRASS THAT WAY!" Elliot repeated 
with a weak laugh. 

"Oh," spake the Buddha, before starting up the truck again and 
driving off. 

Stories like that spread rapidly and so did the Ravenhurst name. On 
his behalf, I for my part answered a survey on improving basic training. 
More realistic combat conditions on the obstacle course and field training in 
venereal disease control where among his recommendations. 

Later on, I added to our files an application by Ravenhurst for officer 
training school. Reason: "I have been a private for ten years, so the only way 
I expect to be promoted is if I try for second lieutenant." Across the page 
was stamped: APPROVED. Nevertheless, for some unexplained reason, 
Ravenhurst remained a private. 

After I was discharged I ran into Bud Simco, who remained in the 
same unit a short while longer than me. "About a month after you mustered 
out, there was a dress rehearsal for the biggest inspection of the year. 

"By then Ravenhurst had a wall locker with his name on it and a 
bunk. Somebody even added a touch of realism by putting an old pair of size 
six shoes with holes in them under Ravenhurst' s bunk. 

"There was only one other guy in that cubicle and he was pretty bent 
out of shape because Ravenhurst was never there in the mornings to help 
sweep. Once or twice he even brought it up with the top sergeant. 

"When the big day came, they even shut down radar center. 
Everybody had to stand inspection. No exceptions. 



"Colonel Fenderson and the top sergeant walked down the isle, 
inspecting one cubicle at a time. It was junk on the bunk," he added, 
indicating the most thorough inspection there is - with every piece of gear 
spread out neatly on the bunk. "Only one bunk with bedding on it was 
empty. Only one man was missing. 

"They wanted to know who Ravenhurst was and, more importantly, 
where he was. Nobody knows, but the other guy in his cubicle reminds the 
top sergeant than Ravenhurst is a malingerer. 

"Then they ask if anybody has ever seen this Ravenhurst. Private 
Monty Cantsin pipes up. Every afternoon Ravenhurst sits right there on his 
bunk. 

"Well then, what does this Ravenhurst look like? Cantsin stretches out 
both arms and says, 'Oh, he's a big mountain of a man!' But just then the 
top sergeant bends over and picks up these little size six shoes. 

"They call up motor transport. 'For the hundredth goddamned time,' 
the captain tells the top sergeant, 'there is nobody named Ravenhurst in 
motor transport. ' So the brass huddle together and decide Ravenhurst must 
have mustered into squadron without checking in with his assigned work 
station - so he could just fuck off all the time. So they are ready to hang him 
- as soon as they find him." 

A futile base-wide manhunt was conducted before Sergeant Karen 
Elliot heard they were searching for Ravenhurst. Somehow - perhaps by 
examining the basic training files - he discovered that Ravenhurst was a 
hoax earlier and now he spilled the beans in exchange, I'm sure, for many 
points. 

A few days later a letter of commendation, dictated by Colonel 
Fenderson, appeared on the squadron bulletin board - congratulating Private 
Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst for outstanding conduct. 

In 1968, when Robert Anton Wilson and I decided to form a 
conspiracy with no purpose - so that investigators would never be able to 
figure out what it was doing - 1 told him about Ravenhurst and invited him, 
or anyone else he recruited, to do anything, anywhere, any time under the 
already-ubiquitous name. We decided to call that conspiracy, however 
unoriginally, the Bavarian Illuminati - a caper that culminated eventually in 
the Illuminatus! Trilogy. 

As for Ravenhurst, the last I heard was the KGB was trying to find 
him so they could make him Chairman of the American Communist Party. 

I'm sure they got the wrong Fenderson. 



Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst, Pvt., USMC (Ret.) January 23, 1991 



THE MAGNUM OPIATE OF MALACLYPSE THE YOUNGER 



OR 



J-fovtf I Foud d Q©<J(tes 
Av> d Wtet I Vid f e Jfe 

Wherein is Explained 
Absolutely Everything Worth Knowing 
About Absolutely Anything 




A It a o$lwnb 




Be ye not lost Among Precepts of Order... 

THE BOOK OF UTERUS 1;5 



Some excerpts from an Interview with Malaclypse the Younger by THE GREATER 
METROPOLITAN YORBA LINDA HERALD-NEWS-SUN- TRIBUNE -JOURNAL- 
DISPATCH-POST AND SANFRANSISCO DISCORDIAN SOCIETY CABAL BULLETIN 
AND INTERGALACTIC REPORT & POPE POOP 



GREATER POOP: Are you really serious or what? 

MAL-2: Sometimes I take humor seriously. Sometimes I take seriousness humorously. 
Either way is irrelevant. 

GP: Maybe you are just crazy. 

M2: Indeed! But do not reject these teachings as false because I am crazy. The reason 
that I am crazy is because they are true. 

GP: Is Eris true? 

M2: Everything is true. 

GP: Even false things? 

M2: Even false things are true. 

GP: How can that be? 

M2: 1 don't know man, I didn't do it. 

GP: Why do you deal with so many negatives? 

M2: To dissolve them. 

GP: Will you develop that point? 

M2: No. 

GP: Is there an essential meaning behind POEE? 

M2: There is a Zen Story about a student who asked a Master to explain the meaning of 

Buddhism. The Master's reply was "Three pounds of flax." 
GP: Is that your answer to my question? 

M2: No, of course not. That is just illustrative. The answer to your question is FIVE 
TONS OF FLAX! 



suspended 



FOURTH EDITION 



ODDUII/2, xii; 68Chs3I36 



PRINCIPIA DISCORDIA 
or 

HOW I FOUND THE GODDESS & WHAT I DID TO HER 
WHEN I FOUND HER 



being a Beginning Introduction to 
The Erisian Mysterees 

WHICH IS MOST INTERESTING 



as Divinely Revealed to 
My High Reverence MALACLYPSE THE YOUNGER, KSC 
Omnibenevolent Polyfather of Virginity in Gold 
and HIGH PRIEST of 
THE PARATHEO-ANAMETAMYSTIKHOOD OF ERIS ESOTERIC (POEE) 



HAIL ERIS? KctA A i xt i ALL HAIL DISCORDIA! 



Dedicated to The Prettiest One 




- JOSHUA NORTON CABAL - 



Surrealists, Harlequinists, Absurdists and Zonked Artists Melee 



POEE 

is one manifestation of 

THE DISCORDIAN SOCIETY 

about which 

you will learn more 

and understand 

less 

We 

are a tribe 

of philosophers, theologians, 

magicians, scientists, 

artists, clowns, 

and similar maniacs 

who are intrigued 

with 

ERIS 

GODDESS OF CONFUSION 

and with 

Her 

Doings 




00001 




3 The Sacred Chao (illustration) 

4 Five Commandments (The Pentabarf) 

5 Zen Story 

6 Telegram to Jehova 

7 Birth of The Erisian Movement 

1 1 Battle Hymn of The Eristocracy 

12 On Prayer 

13 Heaven is down... 

14 Norton's Money 

1 5 Eris - Greek Geneology 

16 Law of Fives 

17 Myth of The Apple of Discord 

1 9 Erisian Hymn 

20 POEE Chart 

21 POEE Symbol 

22 POEE 

23 Application Form 

24 POEE Priests 

26 Erisian Affirmation 

27 Legionnaire Certificate 

27 St. Gulik 

28 How To Start a POEE Cabal Without 
Messing Around With The Polyfather 

29 Baptismal Rite 

3 1 Mysteree Oath 

32 The Discordian Society 

33 The Golden Apple Corps 

33 Numeral V Sign 

34 Calendar 

35 Holy Names 

36 Pope Cards 



37 Parable of The Bitter Tea 

38 Sermon on Ethics & Love 

39 Apostles of Eris 

41 How Honest Book of Truth was Revealed 

42 Curse of Greyface 

43 Mandala 

44 Cosmology (Book of Uterus) 

46 Orders of Discordia 

47 Entropy (Norbert Wiener) 

48 Zarathud's Enlightenment 

49 The Sacred Chao (text) 

52 Hodge/Podge Transformer 

53 Brunswick Shrine 

54 Starbuck's Pebbles 

55 Eris during 3125 years (Brazil letter) 

56 Cosmogeny (Void's Daughters) 

59 Syadastian Chant 

60 Classification of Saints 

61 Occultism 

62 Astrology 

63 Greyface and Negativism 

64 The Turkey Curse 

65 Arguments for Evangelists 

66 "Sink" (game) 

67 Chain Letter (Joint Effort) 

68 Avatar Classification 

69 Epistle to the Paranoids 

71 Super Secret Crypto Cypher Code 

72 Illuminati (letter) 
74 Salvation 



00002 



THE FIVE COMMANDMENTS (THE PENTABARF) 



The PENTABARF was discovered by the hermit 
Apostle Zarathud in the Fifth Year of the 
Caterpillar. He found them carved in gilded stone, 
while building a sun deck for his cave, but their 
import was lost for they were written in a 
mysterious cypher. However, after 10 wks & 1 1 
hrs of intensive scrutiny he discerned that the 

message could be read by standing on his head and viewing it upside down. 



T K t B t I 5 NO 
CODDHi BUT 

ERIS 



KNOW YE THIS O MAN OF FAITH! 

I - There is no Goddess but Goddess and She is Your Goddess. There is 
no Erisian Movement but The Erisian Movement and it is The Erisian 
Movement. And every Golden Apple Corps is the beloved home of a 
Golden Worm. 

II - A Discordian Shall Always use the Official Dis cor dian Document 
Numbering System. 

III - A Discordian is Required during his early Illumination to Go Off 
Alone & Partake Joyously of a Hot Bog on a Friday; this Devotive 
Ceremony to Remonstrate against the popular Paganisms of the Day: of 
Catholic Christendom (no meat on Friday), of Judaism (no meat of 
Pork), of Hindic Peoples (no meat of Beef, of Buddhists (no meat of 

£ \ animal), and of Discordians (no Hot Dog Buns). 

IV- A Discordian shall Partake of No Hot Dog Buns, for Such was the 
Solace of Our Goddess when She was Confronted with The Original 
Snub. 

V - A Discordian is Prohibited of Believing What he Reads. 

IT IS SO WRITTEN! SO BE IT. HAIL DISCORDIA! 
PROSECUTORS WILL BE TRANSGRESSICUTED. 

T£ST <?U£STION f ro/v> To P a*gaCaloal Tfl£ TW£LV£ FAMOUS 
BUDDfIA MINDS SC-HOOL : If they are our loro+hers, how co/*e we caf\'+ 
ea+ "Hie/v>? 




00004 



A ZEN STORY 



By Camden Benares, The Count of Five 
Headmaster, Camp Meeker Cabal 

A serious young man found the conflicts of mid 20th Century America 
confusing. He went to many people seeking a way of resolving within 
himself the discords that troubled him, but he remained troubled. 



One night in a coffee house, a self-ordained Zen Master said to him, "Go to 
the dilapidated mansion you will find at this address which I have written 
down for you. Do not speak to those who live there; you must remain silent 
until the moon rises tomorrow night. Go to the large room on the right of the 
main hallway, sit in the lotus position on top of the rubble in the northeast 
corner, face the corner, and meditate." 

He did as the Zen Master instructed. His meditation was frequently 
interrupted by worries. He worried whether or not the rest of the plumbing 
fixtures would fall from the second floor bathroom to join the pipes and 
other trash he was sitting on. He worried how he would know when the 
moon rose on the next night. He worried about what the people who walked 
through the room said about him. 



His worrying and meditation were disturbed when, as if in a test of his faith, 
ordure fell from the second floor onto him. At that time two people walked 
into the room. The first asked the second who the man sitting there was. The 
second replied "Some say he is a holy man. Others say he is a shithead." 



Hearing 

this, the man was enlightened. 



00005 



r/ssswsns s^wansNi 3Hi ojlni 

OSOL IN31VI dO QNM UnOA 
dO 3XSVM V aa cnnoM 




f:8;Sin 



- THE BIRTH OF THE ERISIAN MOVEMENT 



THE REVELATION 



10. The Earth quakes and the Heavens rattle; 
the beasts of nature flock together and the 
nations of men flock apart; volcanoes usher up 
heat while elsewhere water becomes ice and melts; 
and then on other days it just rains. 

11. Indeed do many things come to pass. 
HBT; The Book of Predications, Chap. 19 



Just prior to the decade of the nineteen-sixties, when Sputnik was alone and 
new, and about the time that Ken Kesey took his first acid trip as a medical 
volunteer; before underground newspapers, Viet Nam, and talk of a second 
American Revolution; in the comparative quiet of the late nineteen- fifties, just 
before the idea of RENAISSANCE became relevant... 

Two young Californians, known later as Omar Ravenhurst and Malaclypse 
the Younger, were indulging in their habit of sipping coffee at an allnight bowling 
alley and generally solving the world's problems. This particular evening the main 
subject of discussion was discord and they were complaining to each other of the 
personal confusion they felt in their respective lives. "Solve the problem of 
discord," said one, the other, "chaos and strife are the roots of all confusion." 



Suddenly the place became devoid of light. Then an utter silence enveloped 
them, and a great stillness was felt. Then came a blinding flash of intense light, as 
though their very psyches had gone nova. Then vision returned. 

The two were dazed and neither moved nor spoke for several minutes. They 
looked around and saw that the bowlers were frozen like statues in a variety of 
comic positions, and that a bowling ball was steadfastly anchored to the floor only 
inches from the pins that it had been sent to scatter. The two looked at each other, 
totally unable to account for the phenomenon. The condition was one of 
suspension, and one noticed that the clock had stopped. 



FIRST I MUST SPRINKLE YOU 
WITH FAIRY DUST 




New Story of Chaos 



-2- 



r\0 girdle ever cured 
a preg»\a»\cy 



77?ere walked into the room a chimpanzee, shaggy and grey about the 
muzzle, yet upright in his full five feet, and poised with natural majesty. He carried 
a scroll and walked to the young men. 

"Gentlemen, " he said, "why does Pickering 's Moon go about in reverse 
orbit? Gentlemen, there are nipples on your chests; do you give milk? And what, 
pray tell, Gentlemen, is to be done about Heisenberg 's Law? " He paused. 
"SOMEBODY HAD TO PUT ALL OF THIS CONFUSION HERE ! " 

And with that he revealed his scroll. It was a diagram, like a yin-yang with 
a pentagon on one side and an apple on the other. And then he exploded and the 
two lost consciousness. 

ERIS - GODDESS OF CHAOS, DISCORD & CONFUSION 

They awoke to the sound of pins clattering, and found the bowlers engaged 
in their game and the waitress busy with making coffee. It was apparent that their 
experience had been private. 

They discussed their strange encounter and reconstructed from memory the 
chimpanzee's diagram. Over the next five days they searched libraries to find the 
significance of it, but were disappointed to uncover references only to Taoism, the 
Korean flag, and Technocracy. It was not until they traced the Greek writing on 
the apple that they discovered the ancient Goddess known to the Greeks as ERIS 
and to the Romans as DISCORDIA. This was on the fifth night, and when they 
slept that night, each had a vivid dream of a splendid woman whose eyes were as 
soft as a feather and as deep as eternity itself, and whose body was the spectacular 
dance of atoms and universes. Pyrotechnics of pure energy formed her flowing 
hair, and rainbows manifested and dissolved as she spoke in a warm and gentle 
voice: 

I have come to tell you that you are free. Many ages ago, My consciousness 



00008 



-3- 



left man, that he might develop himself. I return to find this development 
approaching completion, but hindered by fear and by misunderstanding. 

You have built for yourselves psychic suits of armor, and clad in them, your 
vision is restricted, your movements are clumsy and painful, your skin is bruised, 
and your spirit is broiled in the sun. 

I am chaos. I am the substance from which your artists and scientists build 
rhythms. I am the spirit with which your children and clowns laugh in happy 
anarchy. I am chaos. I am alive, and I tell you that you are free. 

During the next months they studied philosophies and theologies, and 
learned that ERIS or DISCORDIA was primarily feared by the ancients as being 
disruptive. Indeed, the very concept of chaos was still considered equivalent to 
strife and treated as a negative. "No wonder things are all screwed up," they 
concluded, "they have got it all backwards." They found that the principle of 
disorder was every much as significant as the principle of order. 

With this in mind, they studied the strange yin-yang. During a meditation 
one afternoon, a voice came to them: 

It is called THE SACRED CHAO. I appoint you Keepers of It. Therein you 
will find anything you like. Speak of Me as DISCORD, to show contrast to the 
pentagon. Tell constricted mankind that there are no rules, unless they choose to 
invent rules. Keep close the words ofSyadasti: 'TIS AN ILL WIND THAT BLOWS 
NO MINDS. And remember that there is no tyranny in the State of Confusion. For 
further information, consult your pineal gland. 





-4- 



□ NO HURRY 



"What is this?" mumbled one to the other, "A religion based on The 
Goddess of Confusion? It is utter madness!" 



And with these words, each looked at the other in absolute awe. Omar 
began to giggle. Mai began to laugh. Omar began jumping up and down. Mai was 
hooting and hollering to beat all hell. And amid squeals of mirth and with tears on 
their cheeks, each appointed the other to be high priest of his own madness, and 
together they declared themselves to be a society of Discordia, for what ever that 
may turn out to be. 



to 

u 
n 

A 

c 
o 



■M 0< 
E H 
□ 

ID □ 
T3 

ID 

■H +J 
X 

PP 03 
M C 
13 

£ 03 

-H W 
3 

-U Q 

«) £ 

X 

+J 03 
X 

□ 

D C 
O 03 
T3 
XI 
■Q -H 
■H X 

a 




□ = 

□ — 

TJ 0} 

c 
+> o 

X 

03 T3 
C HI 
-rf 
03 3 

to n 

O O 

_C CP 

□ w 
c - 

+> 

u: 03 



03 C 

l-i do 

01 _c 



□ □ 




Q0O1O 



With Erps's fjow, 

. IWST; The Bouk crMjvira fijjj 




O Fl^ORO^ FKofcD, FfifeROy 
& FWoRO, Ffd ©RD, Fe4oftD, 



FN 



Momomoto, Famous Japanese, can swallow his nose 



SUPPORT YOUR LOCAL POLICE 



Ql 



THE BATTLE HYMN OF THE ERISTOCRACY |, 

by Lord Omar * 

H- 

VERSE n 
Mine brain has meditated on the spinning of the Chao; 
It is hovering o'er the table where the Chiefs 
of Staff are now H 

DJ 

Gathered in discussion of the dropping of the Bomb; H- 
Her Apple Corps is strong! £ 

CHORUS £ 

Grand (and gory) Old Discordja! CL 

Grand (and gory) Old Discordja! JjJ" 

Grand (and gory) Old Discordja! °- 

Her Apple Corps is strong! n 

ra 
□ 

VERSE c 
She was not invited to the party that they held 3 
on Limbo Peak; * 

So She threw a Golden Apple, 'stead of turn'd *t 
t'other cheek! M 
O it cracked the Holy Punchbowl and it made 

the nectar leak; of 
Her Apple Corps is strong! * 

• 

-o 

* "Limbo Peak" refers to Old Limbo Peak, commonly called by the Greeks "01 Limb ' Peak. " 



00012 



"The +i'de is furr\ir\(j... e*\e/v>y is suffering 
+erri'lole losses..." -6et\. Oeo, A. Cus+er 



ON PRAYER 



Persons in a Position to Know, Inc. 



MAL-2 was once asked by one of his Disciples if he often prayed to Eris. He replied with 
these words: 

No, we Erisians seldom pray, it is much too dangerous. Charles Fort has listed many 
factual incidences of ignorant people confronted with, say, a drought, and then praying 
fervently — and then getting the entire village wiped out in a torrential flood. 




14. Wipe thine ass with What is Written and 
grin like a ninny at what is Spoken. Take 
thine refuge with thine wine in the Nothing 
behind Everything, as you hurry along the Path. 
THE PURPLE SAGE 
HBT; The Book of Predications, Chap. 19 



Heaven is down. Hell is up. 

This is proven by the fact 

that the planets and stars 

are orderly in their 

movements, 

while down on earth 

we come close to the 

primal chaos. 

There are four other 

proofs, 

but I forgot them. 

—Josh the Dill 

KING KONG KABAL 




Th* meaning of this is fMbnoun 



00013 



The Classical 6reeks were r\of influenced 
loy the Classical 6reeks 



DO NOT 
CIRCULATE 



WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT ERIS (not much) 



The Romans left a likeness of Her for posterity — She was shown as a 
grotesque woman with a pale and ghastly look, Her garment is ripped and 
torn, and as concealing a dagger in Her Bosom. Actually, most women look 
pale and ghastly when concealing a chilly dagger in their bosoms. 

Her geneology is from the Greeks and is utterly confused. Either She was 
the twin of Aries and the daughter of Zeus and Hera; or She was the 
daughter of Nyx, goddess of night (who was either the daughter or wife of 
Chaos, or both), and Nyx's brother, Erebus, and whose brothers and sisters 
include Death, Doom, Mockery, Misery and Friendship. And that she begat 
Forgetfullness, Quarrels, Lies, and a bunch of gods and goddesses like that. 

One day Mal-2 consulted his Pineal Gland* and asked Eris if She really 
created all of those terrible things. She told him that She had always liked 
the Old Greeks, but that they cannot be trusted with historic matters. "They 
were," She added, "victims of indigestion, you know." 

Suffice it to say that Eris is not hateful or malicious. But She is mischievous, 
and does get a little bitchy at times. 

*THE PINEAL GLAND is where each and every one of us can talk to Eris. If 
you have trouble activating your Pineal, then try the appendix which does 
almost as well. Reference: DOGMA I, METAPHYSICS #3, "The Indoctrine 
of The Pineal Gland. " 



00015 

DIRUIT AEDIFICAT MUTAT QUADRATA ROTUNDUS 

Horace 



00016 

The Inside Story! 



THE LAW OF FIVES 

The Law of Fives is one of the oldest Erisian Mysterees. It was first 
revealed to Good Lord Omar and is one of the great contributions to 
come from The Hidden Temple of The Happy Jesus. 

POEE subscribes to the Law of Fives of Omar's sect. And POEE also 
recognizes the Holy 23 (2+3=5) that is incorporated by Episkopos Dr. 
Mordecai Malignatius, KNS, into his Discordian sect, The Ancient 
Illuminated Seers of Bavaria. 

The Law of Fives states simply that: 
ALL THINGS HAPPEN IN FIVES, OR ARE 
DIVISIBLE BY OR ARE MULTIPLES OF FIVE, 
OR ARE SOMEHOW DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY 
APPROPRIATE TO 5. 

The Law of Fives is never wrong. 

In the Erisian Archives is an old memo from Omar to Mal-2: "I find 
the Law of Fives to be more and more manifest the harder I look." 




The Nagas of Upper Burma say that the sun 
shines by day because, being a woman, it 
is afraid to venture out by night. 



00017 



"ifOU WILL FIND that the STATt Is the b"r\d of 0R6ANI2ATI0N 
which, though it does loig things loadly, does s*v>all things loadly too." 
- JOflN K£N(M£Tfl 6AL6RAIT4-I 



THE MYTH OF THE APPLE OF DISCORD 

It seems that Zeus was preparing a wedding banquet for Peleus and 
Thetis and did not want to invite Eris because of Her reputation as a trouble 
maker. * 

This made Eris angry, and so She fashioned an apple of pure gold** 
and inscribed upon it KALLISTI ("To The Prettiest One") and on the day of 
the fete She rolled it into the banquet hall and then left to be alone and 
joyously partake of a hot dog. 

Now, three of the invited goddesses,*** Athena, Hera, and Aphrodite, 
each immediately claimed it to belong to herself because of the inscription. 
And they started fighting, and they started throwing punch all over the place 
and everything. 

Finally, Zeus calmed things down and declared that an arbitrator must 
be selected, which was a reasonable suggestion, and all agreed. He sent them 
to a shepherd of Troy, whose name was Paris because his mother had had a 
lot of gaul and married a Frenchman; but each of the sneaky goddesses tried 
to outwit the others by going early and offering a bribe to Paris. 

Athena offered him Heroic War Victories, Hera offered him Great 
Wealth, and Aphrodite offered him The Most Beautiful Woman on Earth. 
Being a healthy young Trojan lad, Paris promptly accepted Aphrodite's 
bribe and she got the apple and he got screwed. 

As she had promised, she maneuvered earthly happenings so that 
Paris could have Helen (the Helen) then living with her husband Menelaus, 




-2- 



King of Sparta. Anyway, everyone knows that the Trojan War followed 
when Sparta demanded their Queen back and that the Trojan War is said to 
be The First War among men. 

And so we suffer because of The Original Snub. And so a Discordian is to 
partake of No Hot Dog Buns. 

Do you believe that? 



* This is called THE DOCTRINE OF THE ORIGINAL SNUB. 

** There is historic disagreement concerning whether this apple was of metalic gold or 
acapulco. 

*** Actually there were five goddesses, but the Greeks did not know of the Law of Fives. 

Remember: 
KING 

KONG 
Died For 
Your Sins 



5. An Age of Confusion, or an Ancient Age, is one in which 
History As We Know It begins to unfold, in which Whatever Is 
Coming emerges in Corporal Form, more or less, and such 
times are Ages of Balanced Unbalance, or Unbalanced 
Balance. 

6. An Age of Bureaucracy is an Imperial Age in which Things 
Mature, in which Confusion becomes entrenched and during 
which Balanced Balance, or Stagnation, is attained. 

7. An Age of Disorder or an Aftermath is an Apocalyptic Period 
of Transition back to Chaos through the Screen of Oblivion into 
which the Age passeth, finally. These are Ages of Unbalanced 
Unbalance. 

HBT; The Book of Uterus, Chap. 3 



tf o CHI "ZEN 
IS 

KING CONG 



00018 



DO YOU REMEMBER? 

1 . Polite children will always remember that a church is the 



of 



00019 



N ERISIAN HYMN 

by Rev. Dr. Mungo jerry Grindlebone t KOB 

Episkopos, THE RAY VI LIE APPLE PANTHERS 



Inward Christian Soldiers, 
)nward Buddhist Priests, 
inward, Fruits of Islam, 
■ight till youre deceased. 
Mght your little battles, 
loin in thickest fray; 
: or the Greater Glory, 
jf Dis-cord-i-a. 
'ah, yah, yah, 
fah, yah, yah, yah. 

nfffffffffft: 



J!? ALL OF THIS 




<9 

3 



Abbey nf tije larbarmtfi ffifltr 



OFFICIAL PROCLAMATION - ODD# IH(b)/4,i; 18Aft3135 



V) THE HOUSE OF APOSTLES OF ERIS 
For the Eristocracy and the Cabalablia 



A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 



The Five Apostles of Eris 
The Golden Apple Corps (KSC) 
Episkoposes of The Discordian Society 
POEE Cabal Priests 



POEE DISORGANIZATIONAL MATRIX 




E. Saints, Erisian Avatars, and Like Personages 

IV) THE HOUSE OF THE RISING PODGE 
For the Disciples of Discordia 

A. Office of My High Reverence, The Polyfather 

B. Council of POEE Priests 

C. The LEGION OF DYNAMIC DISCORD 

D. Eristic Avatars 

E. Aneristic Avatars 

NOTE: A, B, and C are POEE PROPER; while D and E are POEE IMPROPER 

III) THE HOUSE OF THE RISING HODGE 
For the Bureaucracy 

A. The Bureau of Erisian Archives 

B. The Bureau of The POEE Epistolary, and 

The Division of Dogmas 

C. The Bureau of Symbols, Emblems, Certificates and Such 

D. The Bureau of Eristic Affairs, and 

The Administry for The Unenlightened Eristic Horde 

E. The Bureau of Aneristic Affairs, and 



II) THE HOUSE OF THE RISING COLLAPSE 

For the Encouragement of Liberation of Freedom, and/ or the Discouragement of the Immanentizing of 
the Eschaton 

A. The Breeze of Wisdom and/or The Wind of Insanity 

B. The Breeze of Integrity and/or The Wind of Arrogance 

C. The Breeze of Beauty and/or The Wind of Outrages 

D. The Breeze of Love and/or The Wind of Bombast 

F. The Breeze of Laughter and/or The Wind of Bullshit 

I) THE OUT HOUSE 
For what is left over 

A. Miscellaneous Avatars 

B. The Fifth Column 

C. POEE =POPES= everywhere 

D. Drawer "O" for OUT OF FILE 

E. Lost Documents and Forgotten Truths 



The Administry for The Orders of Discordia 




ir'jSfi* = ^ 6 ^^ YC ^^ n § ere< ^ Hand of Eris = 



The official symbol of POEE is here illustrated. It may be this, or any similar device to 
represent TWO OPPOSING ARROWS CONVERGING INTO A COMMON POINT. It 
may be vertical, horizontal, or else such, and it may be elaborated or simplified as 
desired. 

The esoteric name for this symbol is THE FIVE FINGERED HAND OF ERIS, 
commonly shortened to THE HAND. 




NOTE: In the lore of western magic, the -"-^ is taken to symbolize horns, especially the horns of Satan or 
of diabolical beasties. The Five Fingered Hand of Eris, however, is not intended to be taken as satanic, for 
the "horns" are supported by another set, of inverted "horns. " Or maybe it is walrus tusks. I don 't know 
what it is, to tell the truth. 

00021 

"$m?®di$vo fivo% the 

totel teDsforix) nii&D of the votod 

md dl thrt reseroMes it" 



00022 



POEE (pronounced "POEE") is an acronym for The PARATHEO- 
ANAMETAMYSTIKHOOD OF EPJS ESOTERIC. The first part can be taken to 
mean "equivalent deity, reversing beyond-mystique." We are not really esoteric, 
it's just that nobody pays much attention to us. 

MY HIGH REVERENCE MALACLYPSE THE YOUNGER, AB, DD, KSC, is 
the High Priest of POEE, and POEE is grounded in his espiskopotic revelations of 
The Goddess. He is called The Omnibenevolent Polvfather of Virginity in Gold . 

The POEE HEAD TEMPLE is the Joshua Norton Cabal of The Discordian 
Society, which is located in Mal-2's pineal gland and can be found by temporaly 
and spacialy locating the rest of Mal-2. 

POEE has no treasury, no by-laws, no articles, no guides save Mal-2's pineal 
gland, and has only one scruple — which Mal-2 keeps on his key chain. 

POEE has not registered, incorporated, or otherwise chartered with the State, and 
so the State does not recognize POEE or POEE Ordinations, which is only fair, 
because POEE does not recognize the State. 

POEE has 5 DEGREES: 

A There is the neophyte, or LEGIONNAIRE DISCIPLE. 
L The LEGIONNAIRE DEACON, who is catching on. 
) 5 I> An Ordained POEE PRIEST/PRIESTESS or a CHAPLIN. 
*~*\ \ The HIGH PRIEST, the Polyfather. 
1 And POEE =POPE=. 



POEE LEGIONNAIRE DISCIPLES are authorized to initiate others as Discordian 
Society Legionnaires. PRIESTS appoint their own DEACONS. The 
POLYFATHER ordains Priests. I don't know about the =POPES=. 



y** is 



"*4 



I "1 



OFFIC'M 
D15CORDIAN SOCIETY 
HAIL ERIS 



Application For Members! 



In the Erman Movement of the DISCORDIAN SOCIETY^^ 




Today's dale 



Yesterday's date 



Purpose of this application: —membership in: a. Legion of Dynamic 
Discord b. POEE C. Bavarian Illuminati d. All of the above 
c. None of the above f. Other— be specific'- 



3. Name 



llolv Name 



Address 

If temporary, also give an address from which mail can be forwarded 

4. Description: Born: [ | yce ] | no Eyes: | | 2 | ] other Height: 

fl. oz. Last time you had a haircut: Reason: 

Race: | \ horse | [ human 1. Q.: 150-200 200*250 250-300 over 300 

5, History: Education - highest grade completed 12 3 4 5 6 over 6th 

Professional: On another ream of paper list every job since 1937 
from which you have bticn Sired, Medical: On a sepcrate sheet 
labeled "confidential, 1 * list all major psychotic episodes experienced 
within the last 24 hours 



6. Sneaky qucstirna to establish personality traits 

I would rather a. live in an outhouse b. play in a rock group c eat 

caterpi tiers, I wear obscene tattoos because 

I have ceased raping little children \ ] yes j [ no -■ reason . , . 

7. SELF-PORTRAIT 



1SN1 



Rev. Mungo 

For Office Use Only- acc. rej, burned 



LICK HERE I 



(You may be one 
Of the lucky 25) 



00023 





POEE & IT'S PRIESTS fr^fcggg^ 

If you like Erisianism as it is presented according to Mal-2, then you may 
wish to form your own POEE CABAL as a POEE PRIEST and you can go 
do a bunch of POEE Priestly Things. A "POEE Cabal" is exactly what you 
think it is. 

The High Priest makes no demands on his Priests, though he does rather 
expect good will of them. The Office of the Polyfather is to point, not to 
teach. Once in a while, he even listens. 

Should you find that your own revelations of The Goddess become 
substantially different than the revelations of Mal-2, then perhaps The 
Goddess has plans for you as an Episkopos, and you might consider 
creating your own sect from scratch, unhindered. Episkoposes are not 
competing with each other, and they are all POEE Priests anyway (as soon 
as I locate them). The point is that Episkopos are developing separate paths 
to the Erisian mountain top. See the section "Discordian Society. " 



There are no particular qualifications for Ordination because if you want to 
be a POEE Priest then you must undoubtedly qualify. Who could possibly 
know better than you whether or not you should be Ordained? 

An ORDAINED POEE PRIEST or PRIESTESS is defined as "one who 
holds an Ordination Certificate from The Office of the Polyfather." 



Seek into the Chao if thou wouldst be wise 
And find ye delight in Her Great Surprise! 
Look into the Chao if thou wantest to know 
What's in a Chao and why it ain 't so! 
(HBT; The Book of Advice, 1:1) 



ORDINATION AS A POEE PRIEST 




00024 



World Council of Churches Boutique 



NOTE TO POEE PRIESTS: 

The Polyfather wishes to remind all Erisians the POEE was conceived not as 
a commercial enterprise, and that you are requested to keep your cool when 
seeking funds for POEE Cabals or when spreading the POEE word via the 
market place. 




00025 




His KUJkN SToHE KifEKS FaST, 
TRcN LHiD BARE LiKE AluRNiP 
G*H EfttSiiy BE cur otfT /IT LAST 
But EVEN THEM l*Hf cf AtUaER ISK't fVsr. 

THAT MAN Uvrs UsT wHe's FajK 

To Live half mad. Half sane . 

— FLemi*sH R>et JaM van 
5TiJEV»oRT, 1S2t. 

THE ERISIAN AFFIRMATION 

BEFORE THE GODDESS ERIS, I (name or holy name) , do herewith declare myself a 
POEE BROTHER of THE LEGION OF DYNAMIC DISCORD. 
HAIL HAIL HAIL HAIL HAIL ERIS ERIS ERIS ERIS ERIS 
ALL HAIL DISCORDIA! 

The presiding POEE Official (if any) responds: 

ALL HAIL DISCORDIA! 




To diverse gods 

Do mortals bow; 

Holy Cow, and 

Wholly Chao. 

- Rev. Dr. Grindlebone 

Monroe Cabal 



''ttWIft* IS VHAT T7J.!£ XW< THAT 

THE WfILD IS FUlT. " 




This ij st, SOUK. H* MflmH&er 

o+ QoJeJejj. A cH-ferenf a#f 

/Vldn^ people callej h,M ty 

0002? 






Presented 
Lady of Di 
the House 


all 

11? . 


under 
seord, 
of thi 


1|« 1 






8 J»S 

k,- ft' .-is 


il l « 

»$8 


» ^ S 
o a 


3 of our 
f ER1S. 



s 
4 

8 

a 

E 
£ 

8 
B 



g 

5 



w 

IS 



S 

! 

i 
i 



I 

DCS 



5* 



ST 

I 



5 



I 

I' 



GENERAL LICENSE 



HOW TO START A POEE CABAL 
WITHOUT MESSING AROUND WITH THE POLYFATHER 



If you cannot find the Polyfather, or having found him, don't want anything to do with 
him, you are still authorized to form your own POEE CABAL and do Priestly Things, 
using the Principia Discordia as a guide. Your Official Rank will be POEE CHAPLIN for 
THE LEGION OF DYNAMIC DISCORD, which is exactly the same as a POEE PRIEST 
except that you don't have an Ordination Certificate. The words you are now reading are 
your ordination. 

HOW TO BECOME A POEE CHAPLIN 

1 Write the ERISIAN AFFIRMATION in five copies. 

2 Sign and nose-print each copy. 

3 Send one to The President of the United States. 

4 Send one to 

The California State Bureau of Furniture and Bedding 
1021 TJ' Street, Sacramento CA 94814 

5 Nail one to a telephone pole. Hide one. And burn the other. 

Then consult your pineal gland. 





00028 



TRIP 




= THE POEE BAPTISMAL RITE = 

This Mysteree Rite is not required for initiation, but it is offered by many 
POEE Priests to proselytes who desire a formal ceremony. 

1) The Priest and four Brothers are arranged in a pentagon with the Initiate 
in the center facing the Priest. If possible, the Brothers on the immediate 
right and left of the Priest should be Deacons. The Initiate must be totally 
naked, to demonstrate that he is truly a human being and not something 
else in disguise like a cabbage or something. 

2) All persons in the audience and the pentagon, excepting the Priest, 
assume a squatting position and return to a standing position. This is 
repeated four more times. This dance is symbolic of the humility of we 
Erisians. 

3) The Priest begins: 

7, (complete Holy Name, with Mystical Titles, and degrees, designations, 
offices, &tc) , Ordained Priest of the Paratheo-anametamystikhood of 
Eris Esoteric, with the Authority invested at me by the High Priest of It, 
Office of the Polyfather, The House of The Rising Podge, POEE Head 
Temple; Do herewith Require of Ye: 

1 ) ARE YE A HUMAN BEING AND NOT A CABBA GE OR 
SOMETHING? The initiate answers YES. 

2) THAT'S TOO BAD. DO YE WISH TO BETTER THYSELF? The 
initiate answers YES. 

3) HOW STUPID. ARE YE WILLING TO BECOME 
PHILOSOPHICALLY ILLUMINIZED? He answers YES. 

4) VERY FUNNY. WILL YE DEDICATE YESELF TO THE HOLEY 
ERISIAN MOVEMENT? The initiate answers PROBABLY. 



00029 




-2- 



5) THEN SWEAR YE THE FOLLOWING AFTER ME : (The Priest 
here leads the Initiate in a recital of THE ERISIAN AFFIRMATION.) The 
Priest continues: THEN I DO HERE PROCLAIM YE POEE DISCIPLE 
(name), LEGIONNAIRE OF THE LEGION OF DYNAMIC DISCORD. HAIL 
ERIS! HAIL HAIL! HAIL YES! 

4) All present rejoice grandly. The new Brother opens a large jug of wine 
and offers it to all who are present. 

5) The Ceremony generally degenerates. 



3. And though Omar did bid of the Collector of 
Garbage, in words that were both sweet and 
bitter, to surrender back the cigar box 
containing the cards designated by the Angel as 
The Honest Book of Truth, the Collector 
was to him as one who might be smitten 
deaf, saying only: 'Gainst the rules, 
y 'know. 

HBT; The Book of Explanations, Chap. 2 



AAORD SA^S T-HAT OAAAR 
SA^S T-HAT W£ AR£ 
ALL UNICORNS AN^WA^ 



DO 
0N > 




00030 




7, No vocid cords. 




4, 8 months 



5, Testy Culbert 

6. It protrudes 




DISCARDED 



THE POEE MYSTEREE OATH £3400 

SO 

The Initiate swears the following: 
FLYING BABY SBITt ! I ! t 



19 



(Brothers of the Ancient Illuminated Seers of 
Bavaria sect may wish to substitute the German: 

FLIEGENDE 
or 

WIECZNY KWIAT 

which is Ewige Blumenkraft in Polish.) 



'aii a »cn may wish w iuusLit.n,t uie vaenuoii. 

EGENDE KlNDEBSCUEISSEt -^.^ 

perhaps rORFJP'Kl" 

1CZNY KWIAT WTADZAttllf 




tfft . MO MOM PTO , FAM ©»« 

r4ft- |VU»4««ioTO w 4o CAM 

SWAt^tP MIS Cfl<nH^ft 



Correction to last week's copy: Johnny Sample is 
of tensive cornerback for the New York Jets, not fullback 
as stated. Bobby Tolan's name is not Dandy, but mud. All 
power to the people, and ban the fucking bomb. 



"This Statement is False' 
(courtesy of PfJEE) 




THE DISCORD I AN SOCIETY 



The Discordian Society has no definition. 

I sometimes think of it as a disorganization of Eris Freaks. It has been called a guerrilla 
mind theatre. Episkopos Randomfactor, Director of Purges of Our People's Underworld 
Movement sect in Larchmont, prefers "The World's Greatest Association of What-ever- 
it-is-that-we-are." Lady Mai thinks of it as a RENAISSANCE THINK TANK. Fang the 
Unwashed, WKC, won't say. You can think of it any way you like. 

AN EPISKOPOS OF THE DISCORDIAN SOCIETY 

is one who prefers total autonomy, and creates his own Discordian sect as The Goddess 
directs him. He speaks for himself and for those that say that they like what he says. 

THE LEGION OF DYNAMIC DISCORD: 

A Discordian Society Legionnaire is one who prefers not to create his own sect. 



If you want in on the Discordian Society 
then declare yourself what you wish 
do what you like 
and tell us about it 
or 

if you prefer 
don't. 

There are no rules anywhere. 
The Goddess Prevails. 



So*>e €.pt$kopose$ 
have a or\e-/v>ar\ caloal 
So/we work "hoge+her. 
So*>e r\ever 60 explai'r\. 



When I get to the bottom I go back to the top 
of the slide where I stop and I turn and I go 
for a ride, then I get to the bottom and I see 
you again! Helter Skelter! 

— John Lennon 



THE GOLDEN APPLE CORPS 



The Golden Apple Corps* is an honorary position for The Keepers of The 
Sacred Chao, so that they can put "KSC" after their names. 



It says little, T"0 /l 1 § P* 

does less, F • Kf\ WW AdPhlT 

means ■** / j ^ * \j j 
nothing. 




00033 



pLftPL l UAL BATE COHvlrier PWff teteGdftiAw Id p«e U&lnof S 



SEASONS 



1) Chaos - Patron Apostle Hung Hung 

2) Distort - fstron Apostle Or. Van Van Mojo 

3) Confusion - Patron Apostle SH Sytdastt 
A) bureaucracy - Patron Apostle Zwathud 

5) The Aftervth - Patron Apostle The Elder Kalaclypse 



DATS OF THE WEEK* 

1) Sweetaorn 
21 Boob tine 
31 Pungenday 

4) Prick le-PHcJtle 

5) Setting Orange 

HOLY DAYS 



A] APOSTLE HOLYDAYS 


1 


Hungday 


2 


Mojoday 


3 


1 Syaday 


4 


> Zaraday 


5 


Ka la 'J ay 



*ThM DAIS OP ITOf VKEt 
are noted from tht five 
Basic Elmnta: SVKST, 
900H t PWCOTT, PWCXLK 
and ORAMGB. 



B] SEASON htXYDAYS 



* ■ 

V 
m 

i. 

s 

■ 

I 

D 
O 

■ 

3 



1) Chaofliu 

2) OiscofluK 
3] Confuflux 

4) Bore flux 

5) Afflux 

Stk Bach occur* cm tJm SOth 

daft °f SMttm 

occurs once every 4 years (1+4*5) and is 
Inserted between the 69th and fiOth days of the Season 
of Chaos 



£ 1! 

5 c a 
ii 



■ ■ 



Each occur e on th* 
day of the Sam/on 

C] ST, TIB'S DAY - 













SH 


BT 


PD PP SO 










SM 


BT 


PD PP 


SO 


Jan 


l 


2 


3 4 


& 


1 


2 


J 


4 


S 0m 


Jul 


S 


6 7 8 


9 


40 


41 


42 


43 


44 Cfh 




s 


7 


$ o 


10 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 




10 


11 li 13 


14 


4S 


46 


4f 


46 


49 




n 


12 


13 u 


IS 


11 


12 


13 


14 


IS 




IS 


18 17 18 


19 


SO 


SI 


S2 


S3 


34 




16 


17 


13 19 


20 


10 


17 


18 


19 


20 




20 


21 22 13 


24 


SS 


SS 


37 


S3 


39 




21 


12 


23 U 


23 


21 


22 


23 


24 


2S 




S3 


2€ 27 28 


39 


60 


61 


82 


63 


64 




28 


27 


26 29 


30 


26 


2? 


28 


29 


39 




36 


31 1 2 


3 


es 


68 


67 


68 


69 




31 


1 


2 3 


4 


31 


32 


33 


34 


IS 


Aug 


4 


S 6 7 


B 


70 


71 


72 


73 


1 BC. 


Feb 


5 


G 


7 a 


9 


38 


1? 


38 


39 


40 


9 


10 11 12 


13 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 




10 


II 


12 13 


14 


41 


42 


43 


i4 


4S 




14 


15 16 17 


IB 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 




IS 


16 


17 18 


19 


48 


47 


48 


49 


SO 




19 


20 21 22 


23 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 




20 


21 


22 21 24 


SI 


32 


S3 


S-f 


SS 




24 


25 26 27 


28 


17 


16 


19 


20 


21 




25 


2b 


27 26* 


' 1 


66 


37 


S3 


S9 


60 




29 


30 31 I 


2 


22 


23 


24 


25 


26 


Mar 


2 


1 


4 S 


6 


61 


82 


S3 


64 


SS 


Sep 


3 


4 s e 


7 


27 


28 


29 


30 


31 




7 


8 


9 10 


Jl 


es 


67 


S8 


89 


70 


3 


9 10 11 


12 


32 


33 


34 


35 


36 




12 


IS 


li ti 


ie 


71 


72 


73 


1 


2 Dsc 




13 


14 IS 18 


If 


37 


38 


39 


40 


41 




if 


18 


19 20 


21 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 




18 


19 20 21 


22 


42 


43 


44 


45 


46 




22 


23 


2f 2S 


28 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 




23 


24 2S 26 


27 


47 


48 


49 


50 


51 




27 


28 


29 30 


21 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 




28 


29 30 1 


2 


52 


53 


54 


55 


56 


Apr 


1 


2 


3 4 


s 


18 


19 


20 


21 


22 


Oct 


3 


4 5 6 


7 


57 


58 


E9 


60 


61 


G 


7 


a 9 


10 


23 


24 


25 


26 


27 




8 


9 10 11 


12 


62 


63 


64 


65 


66 




11 


12 


13 14 


15 


28 


29 


30 


31 


32 




13 


14 15 16 


17 


67 


£8 


69 


70 


71 




16 


17 


IS 19 


2D 


33 


34 


35 


36 


37 




18 


19 20 21 


22 


72 


73 


1 


2 


3 Afm 




21 


22 


23 24 


25 


38 


39 


40 


41 


42 




23 


24 25 26 


27 


4 


5 


* 


7 


B 




26 


27 


28 29 


30 


43 


44 


45 


46 


47 




28 


29 30 31 


1 


8 


10 


11 


12 


13 


Mxy 


I 


t 


i 4 


£ 


48 


49 


50 


51 


52 


Wov 


2 


3 4 S 


8 


14 


IS 


16 


17 


13 


e 


? 


8 9 


10 


53 


54 


55 


56 


57 




7 


8 S 10 


11 


19 


20 


21 


22 


23 




ii 


12 


13 14 


IS 


58 


59 


60 


61 


62 




12 


13 14 IS 


IB 


24 


2S 


26 


27 


28 




is 


17 


18 19 


20 


63 


64 


65 


66 


67 




17 


18 19 20 


21 


29 


30 


31 


32 


33 




21 


22 


23 24 


SS 


68 


69 


70 


71 


71 




22 


23 24 2S 


26 


34 


3S 


36 


3? 


36 




28 


27 


28 29 


30 


73 


1 


3 


3 


4 Cfn 




2? 


28 29 30 


1 


39 


40 


41 


42 


43 




51 


1 


2 3 


4 


S 


6 


7 


a 


9 


Dec 


2 


3 4 5 


6 


44 


46 


46 


47 


48 


Jun 


s 


6 


7 8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 




7 


8 9 10 


11 


49 


SO 


SI 


32 


S3 




10 


11 


12 13 


14 


IS 


18 


17 


13 


19 




12 


13 14 15 


16 


&4 


SS 


36 


37 


SB 




JB 


16 


17 18 


19 


20 


tl 


%Z 


23 


24 




17 


18 19 20 


21 


39 


eo 


61 


SZ 


S3 




20 


21 


22 23 


24 


2$ 


26 


27 


28 


29 




22 


23 24 25 


26 


84 


es 


86 


87 


6B 




25 


26 


27 28 


29 


30 


31 


32 


33 


34 




27 


28 29 30 


31 


89 


70 


71 


72 


73 




30 


1 


X 3 


4 


36 


36 


37 


33 


SS 


[1970 - 3l»] (Next St 


. Tibs 


0*7 U 313*1 



HOLY NAMES 



Discordians have a tradition of 
assuming HOLY NAMES. This is not 
unique with Erisianism, of course. I 
suppose that Pope Paul is the son of 
Mr. & Mrs. VI? 

And also TITLES OF MYSTICAL 
IMPORT. 




FOR YOUR 
ENLIGHTENMENT 



THE PARABLE OF THE BITTER TEA 

by 

Rev. Dr. Hypocrates Magoun, P.P. 
POEE PRIEST, Okinawa Cabal 

When Hypoc was through meditating with St. Gulik, he went there 
into the kitchen where he busied himself with preparing the feast and in 
his endeavor, he found that there was some old tea in a pan left standing 
from the night before, when he had in his weakness forgot about its 
making and had let it sit steeping for 24 hours. It was dark and murky 
and it was Hypoc's intention to use this old tea by diluting it with water. 
And again in his weakness, chose without further consideration and 
plunged into the physical labor of the preparations. It was then when 
deeply immersed in the pleasure of that trip, he had a sudden clear voice 
in his head saying "it is bitter tea that involves you so." Hypoc heard the 
voice, but the struggle inside intensified, and the pattern, previously 
established with the physical laboring and the muscle messages 
coordinated and unified or perhaps coded, continued to exert their 
influence and Hypoc succumbed to the pressure and denied the voice. 

And again he plunged into the physical orgy and completed the 
task, and Lo as the voice had predicted, the tea was bitter. 

00037 

"The Five Laws have root in awareness." 
-Che Fung (Ezra Pound, Canto 85) 



The Hell Law says that Hell is reserved exclusively 
for them that believe in it. Further, the Lowest 
Ring in Hell is reserved for them that believe in 
it on the supposition that they'll go there if 
they don't. 

HBT, The Gospel According to Fred, 3: 7 



A SERMON ON ETHICS AND LOVE 



One day Mal-2 asked the messenger spirit Saint Gulik to approach the 
Goddess and request Her presence for some desperate advice. Shortly 
afterwards the radio came on by itself, and an ethereal female Voice said 

YES? 

"O! Eris! Blessed Mother of Man! Queen of Chaos! Daughter of 
Discord! Concubine of Confusion! O! Exquisite Lady, I beseech You to lift 
a heavy burden from my heart!" 

WHAT BOTHERS YOU, MAL? YOU DON'T SOUND WELL. 

"I am filled with fear and tormented with terrible visions of pain. 
Everywhere people are hurting one another, the planet is rampant with 
injustices, whole societies plunder groups of their own people, mothers 
imprison sons, children perish while brothers war. O, woe." 

WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH THAT, IF IT IS WHAT YOU WANT 
TO DO? 

"But nobody wants it! Everybody hates it!" 
OH WELL, THEN STOP. 

At which moment She turned Herself into an aspirin commercial and 
left the Polyfather stranded alone with his species. 

•DEXTER 



CHAPTER 5: THE PIONEERS 



= THE FIVE APOSTLES OF ERIS & WHO THEY BE = 



1. HUNG MUNG 

A Sage of Ancient China and Official Discordian Missionary to the Heathen 
Chinee. He who originally devised THE SACRED CHAO. Patron of The 
Season of Chaos. Holyday: Jan 5. 

2. DR. VAN VAN MOJO 

A Head Doctor of Deep Africa and Maker of Fine Dolls D.H.V., Doctor of 
Hoodoo and Vexes, from The Greater Metropolitan Yorba Linda Jesus Will 
Save Your Bod Home Study Bible School; and F.I.H.G.W.P., Fellow of the 
Intergalactic Haitian Guerrillas for World Peace. Patron of The Season of 
Discord. Holyday: Mar 19. 
NOTE: Erisians of The Laughing Christ 
sect are of the silly contention that Dr. 
Mojo is an imposter and that 
PATAMUNZO LING AN AND A is the 
True Second Apostle. Lord Omar claims 
that Dr. Mojo heaps hatred and curses 
upon Patamunzo, who sends only Love 
Vibrations in return. But we of the POEE 
sect know that Patamunzo is the Real 
Imposter, and that those vibrations of his 
are actually an attempt to subvert Dr. Mojo 's rightful apostilic authority by 
shaking him out of his wits. 

3. SRI SYADASTI SYADAVAKTAVYA SYADASTI SYANNASTI 
SYADASTI CAVAKTAVYASCA SYADASTI SYANNASTI 
SYADAVATAVYASCA SYADASTI SYANNASTI 
SYADAVAKTAVYASCA commonly called just SRI SYADASTI 

His name is Sanskrit, and means: All affirmations are true in some sense, 




00039 



-2- 



false in some sense, meaningless in some sense, true and false in some sense, 
true and meaningless in some sense, false and meaningless in some sense, 
and true and false and meaningless in some sense. He is an Indian Pundit 
and Prince, born of the Peyotl Tribe, son of Chief Sun Flower Seed and the 
squaw Merry Jane. Patron to psychedelic type Discordians. Patron of The 
Season of Confusion. Holyday: May 3 1 . NOTE: Sri Syadasti should not be 
confused with BLESSED ST. GULIK THE STONED, who is not the same 
person but is the same Apostle. 

4. ZARATHUD THE INCORRIGIBLE, sometimes called ZARATHUD 
THE STAUNCH 

A hard nosed Hermit of Medieval Europe and Chaosphe Bible Banger. 
Dubbed "Offender of The Faith." Discovered the Five Commandments. 
Patron of The Season of Bureaucracy. Holyday: Aug 12. 

5. THE ELDER MALACLYPSE 

A wandering Wiseman of Ancient Mediterrania ("Med-Terra" or middle 

earth), who followed a 5 -pointed Star through the 

A alleys of Rome, Damascus, Baghdad, Jerusalem, 
Mecca and Cairo, bearing a sign that seemed to read 
"DOOM". (This is a misunderstanding. The sign 
actually read "DUMB". Mal-1 is a Non-Prophet.) 
Patron and namesake of Mal-2. Patron on The Season 
of The Aftermath. Holyday: Oct 24. 

APOSTLE THE ELDER MAIACLYPSF 

00040 



All statements" are true in some sense, 
false in some sense, meaningless in 
some sense, true and false in some 
sense, true and meaningless In some 
sense, false and meaningless in some 
sense, and true and false and 
meaningless in some sense. A public 
service clarification by the Sri Syadasti 
School of Spiritual Wisdom, Wilmette. 



The teachings of the Sri Syadasti School 
of Spiritual Wisdom are true in some 
sense, false in some sense, meaningless 
in some sense, true and false in some 
sense, true and meaningless in some 
sense, false and meaningless in some 
sense, and true and false and 
meaningless in some sense. Patamunzo 
Lin^anunda School of Higher Spiritual 
Wisdom, Skokie. 



HEY,MAN...Gflfi*T! I F££L 
GOOFY, THE WR/ (KV OLD 
ft*AN LOOKS 
DRUNK 1 




THE HONEST BOOK OF TRUTH 
being a BIBLE of The Erisian Movement 

and How It was Revealed to 
Episkopos LORD OMAR KHAYYAM RAVENHURST, KSC; Bull Goose 
of Limbo; and Master Pastor of the Church Invisible of 
The Laughing Christ, Hidden Temple of The Happy Jesus, 
Laughing Buddha Jesus (LBJ) Ranch 



From The Honest Book of Truth 
THE BOOK OF EXPLANATIONS, Chapter I 

1. There came one day to Lord Omar, Bull Goose of Limbo, a Messenger of Our Lady 
who told him of a Sacred Mound wherein was buried an Honest Book. 

2. And the Angel of Eris bade of the Lord: Go ye hence and dig the Truth, that ye may come 
to know it and, knowing it, spread it and, spreading it, wallow in it and wallowing in it, lie in 
it and lying in the Truth , become a Poet of the Word and a Sayer of Sayings - - and 
inspiration to all men and a Scribe to the Gods. 




3. So Omar went forth to the Sacred Mound, which was to the East of Nullah, and thereupon he worked digging 
in the sand for five days and five nights, but found no Book. 

4. At the end of five days and five nights of digging, it came to pass that Omar was exhausted. So he put his 
shovel to one side and bedded himself down on the sand, using as a pillow a Golden Chest he had uncovered on 
the first day of his labors. 



5. Omar slept. 



6. On the fifth day of his sleeping, Lord Omar fell into a Trance, and there came to him in the Trance a Dream, 
and there came to him in the Dream a Messenger of Our Lady who told him of a Sacred Grove wherein was 
hidden a Golden Chest. 



7. And the Angel of Eris bad of the Lord: Go ye hence and lift the Stash, that ye may come to own it and, owning 
it, share it and, sharing it, love in it and, loving in it, dwell in it and, dwelling in the Stash, become a Poet of the 
Word and a Sayer of Sayings - - an Inspiration to all men and a Scribe to the Gods. 

8. But Omar lamented, saying unto the Angel: What is this shit, man? What care I for the Word and Sayings? 
What care I for the Inspiration of all men? Wherein does it profit a man to be a Scribe to the Gods when the Scribes 
of the Governments do nothing, yet are paid better wages? 

9. And, lo, the Angel waxed in anger and Omar was stricken to the Ground by an Invisible Hand and did not 
arise for five days and five nights. 

10. And it came to pass that on the fifth night he drempt, and in his Dream he had a Vision, and in this Vision 
there came unto him a Messenger of Our Lady who entrusted to him a Rigoletto cigar box containing many 
filing cards, some of them in packs with rubber bands around, and upon these cards were sometimes written 
verses, while upon others nothing was written. 

11. Thereupon the Angel Commanded the Lord: Take ye this Honest Book of Truth to thine bosom and cherish it. 
Carry it forth into The Land and lay it before Kings of Nations and Collectors of Garbage. Preach from it unto the 
Righteous, that they may renounce their ways and repent 



00042 

CONVENTIONAL CHAOS 



GREYFACE 



DO WOT BEND 



In the year 1 166 B.C., a malcontented hunchbrain by the name of Greyface, 
got it into his head that the universe was as humorless as he, and he began to 
teach that play was sinful because it contradicted the ways of Serious Order. 
"Look at all the order about you," he said. And from that, he deluded honest 
men to believe that reality was a straitjacket affair and not the happy 
romance as men had known it. 

It is not presently understood why men were so gullible at that particular 
time, for absolutely no one thought to observe all the disorder around them 
and conclude just the opposite. But anyway, Greyface and his followers took 
the game of playing at life more seriously than they took life itself and were 
known even to destroy other living beings whose ways of life differed from 
their own. 

The unfortunate result of this is that mankind has since been suffering from a 
psychological and spiritual imbalance. Imbalance caused by frustration, and 
frustration causes fear. And fear makes a bad trip. Man has been on a bad 
trip for a long time now. 

It is called THE CURSE OF GREYFACE. 



Bullshit makes 
the flowers grow 
and that's beautiful. 



MAP UBBAIW 

^ library L,e RA/iy 



Climb into the Chao with a friend or two 
And follow the way it carries you, 
Over the Waves in whatever you do. 

(HBT; The Book of Advice, 1:3) 




NO TWO ELEMENTS INTERLOCK 
BUT ALL FIVE DO INTERLOCK 



00043 



AA-fcACSlW-HlL-E, at the Chinese Laur\c*ro/v>at . . . 




DOGMA I - METAPHYSICS #2, " COSMOLOGY " * 



from The Honest Book of Truth 
revealed to Lord Omar 



-I- 



THE BOOK OF UTERUS 



1 . Before the beginning was the Nonexistent Chao, balanced in Oblivion by the Perfect 
Counterpushpull of the Hodge and the Podge. 

2. Whereupon, by an Act of Happenstance, the Hodge began gradually to overpower the 
Podge - - and the Primal Chaos thereby came to be. 

3. So in the beginning was the Primal Chaos, balanced on the Edge of Oblivion by the 
Perfect Counterpullpush of the Podge and the Hodge. 

4. Whereupon, by the Law of Negative Reversal, ** the Podge swiftly underpowered the 
Hodge and Everything broke loose. 

5. And therein emerged the Active Force of Discord, the Subtle Manifestation of the 
Nonexistent Chao, to guide Everything along the Path back to Oblivion - that it might not 
become lost among Precepts of Order in the Region of Thud. 

6. Forasmuch as it was Active, the Force of Discord entered the State of Confusion, 
wherein It copulated with the Queen and begat ERIS, Our Lady of Discord and Gross 
Manifestation of the Nonexistent Chao. 

7. And under Eris Confusion became established, and was hence called Bureaucracy; 
while over Bureaucracy Eris became established, and was hence called Discordia. 

8. By the by it came to pass that the Establishment of Bureaucracy perished in a paper 
shortage. 

9. Thus it was, in accord with the Law of Laws. 




-2- 



10. During and after the Fall of the Establishment of Bureaucracy was the Aftermath, an 
Age of Disorder, in which calculation, computations, and reckonings were put away by 
the Children of Eris in Acceptance and Preparation for Return to Oblivion to be followed 
by a Repetition of the Universal Absurdity. Moreover, of Itself the Coming of Aftermath 
waseth a Resurrection of the Freedom- flowing Chaos. HAIL ERIS! 

11. Herein was set into motion the Eristic pattern, which would Repeat Itself Five Times 
Over Seventy-three Times, after which nothing would happen. 



* This doctrine should not be confused with DOGMA III - HISTORY #6, "HISTORIC 
CYCLES," which states that social progress occurs in five cycles, the first three ("The 
Tricycle") of which are THESIS, ANTITHESIS and PARENTHESIS; and the last two 
("The Bicycle") of which are CONSTERNATION and MORAL WARPTITUDE . 

* * The LAW OF NEGATIVE REVERSAL states that if something does not happen 
then the exact opposite will happen, only in exactly the opposite manner from that in 



which it did not happen. 



NOTE: It is from this text from The Book of Uterus, that POEE has based its Erisian 
Calendar with the year divided into 5 Seasons of 73 days each. Each of the Five Apostles 
of Eris has patronage over one Season. A chart of the Seasons, Patrons, Days of the 
Week, Holydays, and a perpetual Gregorian converter is included in this edition of 
Principia. 



Dull but Sincere Filler 



00045 



itffOSmoN cfOrkrs escalation *<f Disorjer J 41 
(ri&X; Thrift I A«»ri;*»fr+»^«J, < ! *tf 



THE FIVE ORDERS OF DISCOftDlA ( "ThOF] 
Gen. Pandaemonium, Commanding 




The seeds of the ORDERS OF DISCORDIA were planted by Greyface into his early 
disciples. They form the skeleton of the Aneristic Movement, which over emphasizes the 
Principle of Order and is antagonistic to the necessary compliment, the Principle of 
Disorder. The Orders are composed of persons all hung up on authority, security and 
control; i.e., they are blinded by the Aneristic Illusion. They do not know that they belong 
to Orders of Discordia. But we know. 



1. The Military Order of THE KNIGHTS OF THE FIVE SIDED TEMPLE . This 
is for all of the soldiers and bureaucrats of the world. 

2. The Political Order of THE PARTY FOR WAR ON EVIL . This is reserved for 
lawmakers, censors, and like ilk. 

3. The Academic Order of THE HEMLOCK FELLOWSHIP . They commonly 
inhabit schools and universities, and dominate many of them. 

4. The Social Order of THE CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONCERNED 
CITIZENS . This is mostly a grass-roots version of the more professional military, 
political, academic and sacred Orders. 

5. The Sacred Order of THE DEFAMATION LEAGUE . Not much is known 
about the D.L., but they are very ancient and quite possibly were founded by Greyface 
himself. It is known that they now have absolute domination over all organized churches 
in the world. It is also believed that they have been costuming cabbages and passing them 
off as human beings. 




Don't let 

THEM 

immanentize 

the 
Eschaton 



A person belonging to one or more Order is just as 
likely to carry a flag of the counter-establishment as 
the flag of the establishment - - just as long as it is a 
flag. 



fUP-2-3-4, fllP 2-3-4 
60 TO yOUR L£FT-RI6HT.. 



47 



THE FOLLOWING IS QUOTED FROM BERGAN EVANS 
ONNORBERT WEINER, NUCLEAR PHYSICIST 

The second concept Wiener has to establish is that of entropy. 
Probability is a mathematical concept, coming from statistics. Entropy 
comes from physics. It is the assertion - - established logically and 
experimentally - - that the universe, by its nature, is "running down", moving 
toward a state of inert uniformity devoid of form, matter, hierarchy or 
differentiation. 

That is, in any given situation, less organization, more chaos, is 
overwhelmingly more probable than tighter organization or more order. 

The tendency for entropy to increase in isolated systems is expressed 
in the second law of thermodynamics - - perhaps the most pessimistic and 
amoral formulation in all human thought. 

It applies, however, to a closed system, to something that is an 
isolated whole, not just a part. Within such systems there may be parts, 
which draw their energy from the whole, that are moving at least 
temporarily, in the opposite direction; in them order is increasing and chaos 
is diminishing. 

The whirlpools that swirl in a direction opposed to the main current 
are called "enclaves". And one of them is life, especially human life, which 
in a universe moving inexorably towards chaos moves toward increased 
order. 



Personal 



PLANETARY PL which I discovered, is 61. 
It's a Time-Energy relationship existing 
between sun and inner plants and I use it in 
arriving at many facts unknown to science. 
For example, multiply nude earth's 
circumference 24,902.20656 by 61 and you 
get the distance of moon's orbit around the 
earth. This is slightly less than actual 
distance because we have not yet considered 
earth's atmosphere. So be it. Christopher 
Garth, Evanston. 



IF Tfi£ T£L£PHOM£ 
R1M6S TODAy... 
WAT£R it! 

-Rev. Tho/v>aS y 6r\os"ftc 



"I SHOULD HAVE BEEN A PLUMBER. 

—Albert Einstein 



"GRASSHOPPER ALWAYS 
WRONG IN ARGUMENT WITH 

CHICKEN" - Book of Char\ 

co/v>ptW loy O.P.U. sect 



=Z ARATHUD ' S ENLIGHTENMENT = 



Before he became a hermit, Zarathud was a young priest, and 
took great delight in making fools of his opponents in front of 
his followers. 

One day Zarathud took his students to a pleasant pasture and 
there he confronted the Sacred Chao while She was contentedly 
grazing. 

"Tell me, you dumb beast," demanded the Priest in his 
commanding voice, "why don't you do something worthwhile. 
What is your Purpose in Life, anyway?" 

Munching the tasty grass, The Sacred Chao replied "MU".* 

Upon hearing this, absolutely nobody was enlightened. Primarily 
because nobody could understand Chinese. 

* "MU" is the Chinese ideogram for NO-THING. 



FIND P£AC€ 

WITfl A 
CONTENTED 
CflAO 



00048 



TAO FA 
TSU-DAN 





The SACRED CHAO is the key to illumination. Devised 
by the Apostle Hung Mung in ancient China, it was 
modified and popularized by the Taoists and is sometimes 



THE SACRED CHAO 




called the YIN- YANG. The Sacred Chao is not the Yin- Yang of the Taoists. It is 
the HODGE-PODGE of the Erisians. And, instead of a Podge spot on the Hodge 
side, it has a PENTAGON which symbolizes the ANERISTIC PRINCIPLE, and 
instead of a Hodge spot on the Podge side, it depicts the GOLDEN APPLE OF 
DISCORDIA to symbolize the ERISTIC PRINCIPLE. 

The Sacred Chao symbolizes absolutely everything anyone need ever know about 
absolutely anything, and more! It even symbolizes everything not worth knowing, 
depicted by the empty space surrounding the Hodge-Podge. 

HERE FOLLOWS SOME PSYCHO-METAPHYSICS. 
If you are not hot for philosophy, best just skip it. 

The Aneristic Principle is that of APPARENT ORDER; the Eristic Principle 
is that of APPARENT DISORDER. Both order and disorder are man made 
concepts and are artificial divisions of PURE CHAOS, which is a level deeper 
than is the level of distinction making. 

With our concept making apparatus called "mind" we look at reality 
through the ideas- about-reality which our cultures give us. The ideas-about- 
reality are mistakenly labeled "reality" and unenlightened people are forever 
perplexed by the fact that other people, especially other cultures, see "reality" 
differently. It is only the ideas-about-reality which differ. Real (capital-T True) 
reality is a level deeper than is the level of concept. 

We look at the world through windows on which have been drawn grids 
(concepts). Different philosophies use different grids. A culture is a group of 
people 



00049 



-2- 



<c<33 




with rather similar grids. Through, a window we view chaos, and relate it to the 
points on our grid, and thereby understand it. The ORDER is in the GRID. That is 
the Aneristic Principle. 

Western philosophy is traditionally concerned with contrasting one grid 
with another grid, and amending grids in hopes of finding a perfect one that will 
account for all reality and will, hence, (say unenlightened westerners) be True. 
This is illusory; it is what we Erisians call the ANERISTIC ILLUSION. Some grids 
can be more useful than others, some more beautiful than others, some more 
pleasant than others, etc., but none can be more True than any other. 

DISORDER is simply unrelated information viewed through some 
particular grid. But, like "relation ", no-relation is a concept. Male, like female, is 
an idea about sex. To say that male-ness is "absence of female-ness ", or vice 
versa, is a matter of definition and metaphysically arbitrary. The artificial concept 
of no-relation is the ERISTIC ILL USION. 

The point is that (little-t) truth is a matter of definition relative to the grid 
one is using at the moment, and that (capital-T) Truth, metaphysical reality, is 
irrelevant to grids entirely. Pick a grid, and through it some chaos appears 
ordered and some appears disordered. Pick another grid, and the same chaos will 
appear differently ordered and disordered. 

Reality is the original Rorschach. 
Verily! So much for all that. 




-3- 



The PODGE of the Sacred Chao is symbolized as The Golden Apple 
of Discordia , which represents the Eristic Principle of Disorder. The 
writing on it, "KALLISTI" is Greek for "TO THE PRETTIEST ONE" and 
refers to an old myth about The Goddess. But the Greeks had only a 
limited understanding of Disorder, and thought it to be a negative 
principle. 



The Pentagon represents the Aneristic Principle of 
Order and symbolizes the HODGE. The Pentagon 
has several references; for one, it can be taken to 
represent geometry, one of the earliest studies of 
formal order to reach elaborate development;* for 
another, it specifically accords with THE LAW OF FIVES. 

THE TRUTH IS FIVE BUT MEN HAVE ONLY ONE NAME FOR IT. 

Patamunzo Lingananda 

It also is the shape of the United States Military Headquarters, the 
Pentagon Building, a most pregnant manifestation of straightjacket 
order resting on a firm foundation of chaos and constantly erupting 
into dazzeling disorder; and this building is one of our more 
cherished Erisian Shrines. Also it so happens that in times of 
medieval magic, the pentagon was the generic symbol for 
werewolves, but this reference is not particularly intended and it 
should be noted that the Erisian Movement does not discriminate 
against werewolves - - our membership roster is open to persons of 
all races, national origins and hobbies. 



* The Creek geometrician PYTHAGORAS, however, was not a typical 
aneristic personality. He was what we call an EXPLODED ANERISTIC 
and an AVATAR. We call him Archangle Pythagoras. 





28 DAY RECORDING 

5. Hung Mung slapped his buttocks, hopped 
about, and shook his head, saying, "I do not 
know! I do not know!" 

HBT; The Book of Gooks, Chap 1 



00052 



BRUNSWICK SHRINE 



In the Los Angeles suburb of Whittier there lives a bowling alley, and 
within this very place, in the year of Our Lady of Discord 31 25 (1 959*), 
Eris revealed Herself to The Golden Apple Corps for the first time. 

In honor of this Incredible Event, this Holy Place is revered as a Shrine by 
all Erisians. Once every five years, the Golden Apple Corps plans a 
Pilgrimage to Brunswick Shrine as an act of Devotion, and therein to 
partake of No Hot Dog Buns, and ruminate a bit about it All. 

It is written that when The Corps returns to the Shrine for the fifth time 
five times over, then shall the world come to an end: 



And Five Days Prior to This Occasion The 
Apostle The Elder Malaclypse Shall Walk 
the Streets of Whittier Bearing a Sign for 
All Literates to Read thereof: "DOOM", as 
a Warning of Forthcoming Doom to All 
Men Impending. And He Shall Signal This 
Event by Seeking the Poor and Distributing 
to Them Precious MAO BUTTONS and 
Whittier Shall be Known as The Region of 
Thud for These Five Days. 



As a public service to all mankind and civilization in general, and to us in 
particular, the Golden Apple Corps has concluded that planning such a 
Pilgrimage is sufficient and that it is prudent to never get around to 
actually going. 



IMPENDING DOOM 
HAS ARRIVED 




* Or maybe it was 1 958, I forget. 



00053 



STARBUCK'S PEBBLES 



Which 
Is 

Real? 



a 



Do these 5 pebbles really form a pentagon? 
Those biased by the Aneristic Illusion would say yes. 
Those biased by the Eristic Illusion would say no. 
Criss-cross them and it is a star. 

An Illuminated Mind can see all of these, yet he does not insist that any one is really true, 
or that none at all is true. Stars, and pentagons, and disorder are all his own creations and 
he may do with them as he wishes. Indeed, even so the concept of number 5. 



Can you chart 
the COURSE 
to 
Captain 
Valentine's 
SWEETHEART? 



The real reality is there, but everything you KNOW 
about "it" is in your mind and yours to do with as 
you like. Conceptualization is art, and YOU ARE 
THE ARTIST. 



Convictions cause convicts. 



HEMLOCK ? 

\ NEVER TOUCH 
THE STUFF/ 




00054 



When I was 8 or 9 years old, 
I acquired a split beaver 
magazine. You can imagine 
my disappointment when, 
upon examination of the 
photos with a microscope, I 
found that all I could see was 
dots. 




7. Never write in pencil unless you are on a train or sick in bed. 



ERIS CONTEMPLATES FOR 3! £5 YEARS 



Pun- rati b SMl Silk 

Mm 



TUI riltTHIO- •HlWITlu.Tit IKHOQP Of 1111 1 1 0 1 It I C (fOill 



Cmnlh*n**<>lant PslyfalKar of Virginity l-i Gpld 

h i <: h rn ill 



THI tRlSlAN MOVtMINT HOUII Of AFOMLI* Of Ml* 

KloPiiiM fvilAin [ i t»,..,i niM t*ii»aii «>■»• 1 «' 1 ..... 

OHIH.l tfMH.ll.. DH. -A.nl Hw*hi> ill #ff(l.«ml= n/a 

I I T*» 0*ft*ltl Af^lm C»rp s VI |+ *r OlllgppTl!** OIH*****! Th* lvf«.« a f tty, hHflv «F I nOGMAS 

< I CatmiH •> tali. *■*»•■: Oifl<« .f »[inhii4, hn <f Hh fait { I J..-.. • 

Mvt'i sail: n of ^ C|Trot w.-J.,'. yes 

Driai.nu, <*■«!: J0SHUA NORTON Cabal - San Francisco 
roi REV. RAMPANT PA-tCREAS , tRRoCREeJpUH; Colorado Encrustation 



Brother Rem, 

Your acute observation that ERIS spelled backward* is SIRE, and your inference 
to th* effect that there it sexual jyierolua here, have brought me to seme 
observations of my own 

ERIS spelled for* -part-afs-Her.il is RISE. And spelled inside out is WIS, 
which is a unit of aoney, albeit Portugese -Braii 1 Ian and no longer in use. 
From this it may be cone 1 tided that Eris has usurped Eros (god of erode love) 
In the eyes of those who raid backwards: which obviously made Eros lorE. 
Then She apparently embe neled the Olympian Treasury and went to Brazil ; 
whereupon She opened * chain of whorehouses {which certainly would gm a 
rise from the male population]. 1 figure it to he this in particular because 
KABAH reads the sue forwards and backwards. And further, it is a term of 
great respect, similar to SIRE. 

And so thank you for your insight, it may well be the clue to the mystery 
of just where Eris has been fucking around far 31 2S years. 



FIVE TONS OF FLAX] 




KALMJTl t f- * + HAIL "'* t i t t -f "' HAIL trltCOHOIA 

Mr§nri Ifcn l.ir.> „ H , %, iMrotnui tmcoMINT w« OD.onV.il )J« km IiJi 




vi GO w tt 
q> Z 

4-» O £* ,3 



9 



rtJ O 

vt 3 
+-> -w to 



-1- 



4- nj 

o Vt 

5 n o 

eg E co B 

3 **• at 



VI 

i- 

01 

5 



(A 
■i— 



at 
s- 
o 



a> 



01 



CLI 



CO 

Q> 

CO 
CO 



01 tT) 

Sa O • 
5 in (- 
« +> 01 

>, c +J 
o at v» 
c e 

C r— <U 
OILlI +J 

a 

tn o 
b m 

Via c 

uir at 

s~ at at 

10 i > -Q 
01 **- 
>> to u_ -o 

in 
in 



5 




E fc. o +* 
tu +-» a> S -m -C *- 

•£ L£ (A t) EDO 
O) 4-> 3 C» 3 ««- 

££ (-11 VO 
-a at -c .a i- (A 
o at >>:e *n .a en 
X3 en i— "O c 

-Orttotcc3f-J= * 

j= o-a-a 5 ixj ^ | 

at ~u v> o • tu v) c s; 
x: C'i-4-»«/»Jcoia» a 

| — — * c f- V) 
trt t/l >»*t— " -C -«— 3j 
03 J= +> X S 

a +* *o cu <a 

S> tu •»-» " » 

c oi £> c c 

ret i~ m at o 09 

at «— f- o +i 
aii- 3 x+J 
E to o at c k 
is at 3 *i- *^ 

x >e 5 «t c E J* 

11 II O JC O •*- «* Qt 

y 4J i. e r 
at at J- 3 at -m 
-c e at E c c 3C _ 

+J 0£ -r- <t O C 

ia o rtt x: f» 
«*- mm cn-M 



c c • 

-o 

4-> +-> I— 

c c 

i/l <A 



o <u fa 
i — o> 



«3 *0 



I 

(o 



at 



■— O E C r- +> +* iO 

n> wx u tu c a <a a 



o at <j 



_£Z O) — to 
■*-» £ ♦» ._. - 

•r M V4J<t- O C£ 
S E «i~ Di +■» Cu 
3 0) at 4-» Qu 

+-> U 3 HI S-+Ji- CO 

at at 3: at **- qj 

« CD (A C OI If 

L o c t) (U s- >i-t^ 
CD ia j-ov Or- r*! 
*» « O *r- +i 

Ot- U (■ E tn to 

t/l i— D) 01 >"i 3 «i 

IO C +> 0) C Ifl-P gi 
*.C^«ir«r CO 

h— +** t/s at > 
vt o I c ai q 

W -M S- V) O «C 

at e e a; x: -p^; 

•P C J- C 3 
0> in trt +J «t 0J t- O O 
C3-^« +>Dj+» 
•f- O X -£Z 4-» +* 

t-> td c +-> o vt ^: 

ot at c at c *i- " 

1 M- — J= 
V» (O O p— 4-» •"■»-» • 
i- U+J O fl HT3 S. £Z 

I- at C -c E-CCO 3E 



00056 



-2- 



oj x» 

C EC 
<** „ O At 
E HI i/l 

<U 4-> 0> O- 
S . I- Q. 3 

lb o 3 o 

c Co* 
re at tj cn 
Ec at 

« O (O 4(r- 

IO >»LO +•> 
ci an— c. 

at .c £ 

0 "O v> T3 +j 

■MCE • Cl CT> 

vi a 5 i. n •■- 
U 01 a t— 

«* S <#- xi C a 

<U C CT>XJ 
C -C o o 

o cn-r- u 

01 J= J- CJD-r- 

*- -*-» ns i- _c 

* * 4 c 

cn qj no o» 

l/J CD C t. Qi 

•J" C «r- Cl • E 

t— jz y> 3i 

UJ >>+J >, i_ _C 
ITS £1 CI O 
>v — >> JZ VI 

-Mt- O T3 
-c c at ai c 
■M «J £ W£ o 

s- o* Q. b +j s. 

0 0/ Ol t— CD 

j= -c co at cl ns 
crn/> <a 3 E 

p >» • E u -a 
(■is c n sua 
-Q cu _c 

ai o. at at 
i/) -C Clsz e oi 
CT>+-» ID 01 5 c 

c x: iai/i 

-C -Q XJ L X) r— 

+» 3 01 fl +> 
OJ 3 O >» C 
-C -Q * to 3 

•M C £■ 

• 4-» o or « 

* (0 *f JZ c 

■m <a c »— •+-» o 
« * o ■?! 
J- 1- +» 
t- .c at n r q 

«f- U 41 +J C 
t" M 01 1- *i— 

+J If. </) § 

>» . cn ti 

C. +J -4-> c 
OI !/» X -r- 

> 3 at -e ■— 



i 

(A 
3 

O «/> 
•t- O 

> <a 
at _c 
t u 



a 

01 J= 

•£ * 

O C 

(A 1— 

"O V> 

g* 

■M C? 
O At 
C E 



01 

*J8 



o 



«t- 

jz jz 
to o 



fe 2 

r 

o 



V) 



Cn. 



3>J= -C 
CP } 

*» ai 

i- 41 « 
-Q >, 
* 01 At 

*» «i a 

(A 3 
<U rt» >, 
CI C 
C ffl « 

t- as E 

•O 4JT3 

uec 

0 0 ro 

c 



to 



AI 01 

oo 

(A 



Cn 



AI 

01 
-Q 

Al 
to 

01 



cn 

3 

O 

5 

0) 

CO 



I « 
CO s- 
"O M m r 
C Q£ 4J o 
OUJVI-p 
S <r> +J 
V) U 

«» • 
US OJ 0J 

oiui c m 
)■ oc 

■*-» 01 >— 4J 
*fl DC 

01 c -o 
+-> C oi tu 

c oiir 

O +-> -M 

0 n- t. o 
■*- I- «» 

C. X) 

01 s- +j c 
-coiaig 

+-» V» CL 
Of E w 



« O «*- C 

— I < 

01 



Pf! o oi 

#5 tl) O L 
% E 01 
01 +» 

>iC AI +J 
AJ -M AI 
•— C i— 
CLT? •»- M- 

0 E *"-c 

■»-» A? C O 
C 01-r- 

01 at +i S 



lO "Q = 

0 CO 

I— 

■o I- to 

01 • « • 
■dc ua E 
c +-»•»- uj <i> 

AI O J= Z f= 

01 u m c 

"O 19 C 0J Ot 

c at ro -a a> 

O *F- * 

3» V> VI +* 

*» c ■#- a> 

JZ f- |_ J3 
cn cn Of 
3 3 c -C w 

AI E T- 4J AI 
■U fl 01 O J 

CQ 

at vt at 
-e C at .c « 

(/) u i/» +j c 

c u 9 at 
^ oi ai E»-r 
-a <5 -f-J 
ai c +* 
*»s ■*- 
o oi* - 

Om£ 

■M I— CO A» 



00057 



at 

aiw l 

01 £ itl tU 
£+t+J£ 

t- "O p 
O C| 19 t. 

O O 
T3 at +-> (Xt 
at c 

•«- CD-I- 
"♦-01 AI 
It C -P Cl 

t- C 01 

p-o 0»H 

AI AI 5 

W> -C 01 

c oi jz 

3T3 C 

c • 

+-» AJ Xt > — . 
•— C AJ r— 

at • ai at »— 
H- at -o At 

at c oi o -M 

X W IA >o 
-M 3 V) 

w At aj 

at at tA sz 
-p i « «+- 
l- c S o o 

3 O C 

■*-> C 4-» -O 

ia at c -o 

♦p- i r- 01 AS 

T3 At 3 XT 
OCT 01 

W +J +» £ 

-C AS i 

* -e at +» 

at a£< - 
f£ cn >- 

OX) |— 

VI C « • »— » 

At Ul _i 

V) •>)«< 

« Of in c=} 

* U^OIh 
C JS »-« 

"O 0l+»U)« 

'•- +■* l-l 

O (rt X3 U Q. 
> i- 01 O CO 

" at m *k 
Si xt o 
e cl at 

••- At E -M +* 
+* O 4T IA At 
•r" +J At ' — 
IA M Ct— +» 

*E 5s 5 
•C -C Cl - 
+■* Q- U ci 
at «i— ■(- 

i- CL< 

■ — at 
ai xi at xi 
_ at • p— c 

3C +■* f~~ CO At 

o is ia 

Z 01 3 O. (A 
I- +■» 01 
tt'i- M I. 
C O UJ 

At CL<4- O 
-C lO O 4-» 



5! 

1 
1 



1 

-o 

«r- 

o 
-a 

JS - 

e -C 
O +J 

E 

s I 

u 

jc or 
■+-> -a 
o 

J3 -O 

>> O 
41 > 

•*-> O 
* 

i/i -a 
c 

5* 



at o 

JZ CO 

v» +» 

S- VI 

■M ^ 
VI U_ 
•i— 

CO V) 



C 91 

a* j= 



at 
| 



EL 

3 
vi ai 

T * 

TJ LU O 
C 4-» 

n> j= 
** e 

Oil— fO 

*?- at 
ai at ^3 
ca xj 

* f- c 
C VI u 

C • TJ 

■*- *- e 
at *o 

10 TD 

•i- *- wj 
i- o ■•- 

C I- ** 

■a 

+-> e <a 
ip ia qj 

D g <j) 
T3 T3 r 
f 1.M 

lO O 

at c 

O <•- s 

to >, o 
a id J. 

X r— i- 
O. O 

* «l 

i- -C _= 

o cn+-» 
<i_ ^— ^ 

o E * 
c at -a 
-c ai 

on r— 
c +*•— 
ITJ *r— 
>J= «+- 

xr at 

O EE 

* to as 
S- U 
Of •> aj 



Q TJ 10 
-Q t-X 

at txj 
vi j= 
i- +j 
.c at a 
+-» > ca 

«3 

•o <— » * 
t— o c 



c ca 
at 

5 «5 



at « 
E-o 
ai t- 

m s. o 

tn «t- -O 

v> E -i— 

.c .e "o. 
at 

ai at t- 
> 

<— «— a* 

< — ■ — CD 

i- at " 
at js 
j= in = 
+J * 

O "O O* 
s~ c c 
ja 1 «- 
_ <U 
X * ca 
at en i 
c c c 
o 

k 3Z 

3 o* 
o t- o 
>- jo +» 

* at (- 
-a at 3 

■l- -Q 4-» 

o at 

;» at C 
> 

"O o 

<U JC -M 
TJ 

Cm E 
10 »r" 

£-or 
at c 

VI 

= VI 3 

*>• i- m 

+-> 5_ L> • • 

c ai on 
at c -o c 

"Ol < C «r- 

I*: J 

VI 01 E r— 

p . UJZ 
3 > 

ai co o at 

U = o 01 
rtj V) L. 

2 3 01 

ai 



-3- 



a> 

C -V 
•r- U 

<a ■■- 

<o 

01 «o 



*[— 

+> o> 
o 

C 3 = 

a 



to ai 

-C • CO 
V> 01 >, 

i £ 

at «t 

a 

at 

Cn jc f" 
C i— 

t- at to 
at u 

at E 
**- xi M 
o x 

m 

ai E3 

LI O 
— Li TJ 

TJ <B 

to T3 J~ 

2-t- a> 
o £ 
>■ +j 
at o 
JO • t- 

■*-> 0} CQ 
VI &- 

at o 3 
>+-><? 
» >i 
a» c 
i— E vi 



at a c 

JZ u o 

•*-» lO 

o ■— 

S- r- >, 
IQJT 
JS 
(- VI -M 
3 3 

0 +• 
>> 3 

-Q - 
(= J= 

01 * V) 

3 C X 

s «^ 

at 3 

CO o 

t >» 
e 

O to 

z id 



1 



ro Qi 



KB 

1*1 

CO O W • 

V «o (o to 

-P Q 



it 




♦ III 



•t4 

«> g 

0) k to 'KJ 

3 » *t* 
+> 4S 

« It, V 

:M 

•"Si 

o o i 

a 



4i 



3 ii H) 



00058 



There is 
serer\i"t*y 
ir\ Chaos. 

Seek ye 
the -Eye 
of the 
•Hurricar\e 



A POEE MYSTEREE RITE - THE SRI SYADASTIAN CHANT 
Written, in some sense, by Mal-2 

Unlike a song, chants are not sung but chanted. This particular one is much enhanced by 
the use of a Leader to chant the Sanskrit alone, with all participants chanting the 
English. It also behooves one to be in a quiet frame of mind and to be sitting in a still 
position, perhaps The Buttercup Position. It also helps if one is absolutely zonked out of 
his gourd. 

RUB-A-DUB-DUB 

O! Hail Eris. Blessed St. Hung Mung. 

SYA-DASTI 

O! Hail Eris. Blessed St. Mo-Jo. 

SYA-DAVAK-TAVYA 

O! Hail Eris. Blessed St. Zara-thud. 

SYA-DASTI SYA-NASTI 

O! Hail Eris. Blessed St. Elder Mai. 

SYA-DASTI KAVAK-TAV-YASKA 

O! Hail Eris. Blessed St. Gu-lik. SYA-DASTI, SYA-NASTI, SYA-DAVAK-TAV- 
YASKA 

O! Hail Eris. All Hail Dis-cord-ia. 
RUB-A-DUB-DUB 

It is then repeated indefinitely, or for the first two thousand miles, which ever comes first. 

00059 




00060 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF SAINTS 

1. SAINT SECOND CLASS 

To be reserved for all human beings deserving of Sainthood. Example: St. Norton the 
First, Emperor of the United States and Protector of Mexico (his grave near San 
Francisco is an official POEE shrine.) 

THE FOLLOWING FOUR CATAGORIES ARE RESERVED FOR FICTIONAL BEINGS 
WHO, NOT BEING ACTUAL, ARE MORE CAPABLE OF PERFECTION. 

2. LANCE SAINT 

Good Saint material and definitely inspiring. 
Example: St. Yossarian ( Catch 22 , Heller) 

3. LIEUTENANT SAINT 

Excellent Goddess-saturated Saint. 

Example: St. Quixote, ( Don Quixote , Cervantes) 

4. BRIGADIER SAINT 

Comparable to Lt/Saint but has an established following (fictional or factual). 
Example: St. Bokonon ( Cat's Cradle , Vonnegut) 

5. FIVE STAR SAINT 
The Five Apostles of Eris. 

NOTE: It is an Old Erisian Tradition to never agree with each other about Saints 



Everybody understands Mickey Mouse. Few understand 
Herman Hesse. Only a handf ull understood Albert Einstein. 
And nobody understood Emperor Norton. 

- Slogan of NORTON CABAL- S.F. 



Tests By Doctors Prove 
It Possible To Shrink 



= On Occultism = 

Magicians, especially since the Gnostic and the Quabala influences, have 
sought higher consciousness through the assimilation and control of 
universal opposites - - good/evil, positive/negative, male/female, etc. But 
due to the steadfast pomposity of ritualism inherited from the ancient 
methods of the shaman, occultists have been blinded to what is perhaps 
the two most important pairs of apparent or earth-plane opposites: 
ORDER/DISORDER and SERIOUS/HUMOROUS. 

Magicians, and their progeny the scientists, have always taken themselves 
and their subject in an orderly and sober manner, thereby disregarding 
an essential metaphysical balance. When magicians learn to approach 
philosophy as a malleable art instead of an immutable Truth, and learn to 
appreciate the absurdity of man's endeavors, then they will be able to 
pursue their art with a lighter heart and perhaps gain a clearer 
understanding of it, and therefore gain more effective magic. CHAOS IS 
ENERGY. 



This is an essential challange to the basic 
concepts of all western occult though, 
and POEE is humbly pleased to offer 
the first major breakthrough in 
occultism since Solomon. 



- I 
i 4 I 



00061 




POEE ASTROLOGICAL SYSTEM 



00062 



1) On your next Birthday, return to the place of your birth and, at precisely 
midnight, noting your birth time and date of observation, count all visible 
stars. 

2) When you've done this, write to me and I'll tell you what to do next. 



The theorem to be proved is that if 
any even number of people take seats at 
random around a circular table bearing place 
cards with their names, it is always possible 
to rotate the table until at least two people 
are opposite their cards. Assume the 
contrary. Let n be the even number of 
persons, and let their names be replaced by 
the integers 0 to n - 1 "in such a way that the 
place cards are numbered in sequence 
around the table. If a delegate d originally 
sits down to a place card p, then the table 
must be rotated r steps before he is correctly 
seated, where r = p - d, unless this is 
negative, in which case r = p - d + n. The 
collection of values of d (and of p) for all 
delegates is clearly the integers 0 to n-1, 
each taken once, but so also is the collection 
of values of r, or else two delegates would 
be correctly seated at the same time. 
Summing the above equations, one for each 
delegate, gives S - S + nk, where k is an 
integer and S = n (n - l)/2, the sum of the 
integers from 0 to n - 1 . It follows that n = 
2k + 1, an odd number." This contradicts the 
original assumption. 

"I actually solved this problem 
some years ago," Rybicki writes, "for a 
different but completely equivalent problem, 
a generalization of the nonattacking 'eight 
queens' problem for a cylindrical 
chessboard where diagonal attack is 
restricted to diagonals slanting in one 
direction only. 



Look foR-mis 

SMDWFLfvKE - IT 



HNS MftGlC 



pROPEfCTie.S 




X 




cr 






1— 


F3 


UJ 


1 




< 


UJ 


X 








IS 


UT 






RY 




-j 






=i 


UJ 


a 








a 


UJ 


z 








cc 


1—1 




UJ 


o 


uJ 


X 


kjj 


IJ 


in 


LT 


UJ 


OP 


X 


y 




> 


u 




<. 




1 — ( 






a 


UJ 


u 


a 




or. 


X 




cr 




< 




a 


o 




u 


l— 




X 






«£ 






UJ 


e: 


JZ 




y 




•c 


F 




i— i 

5 


>— ( 






03 




a: 


Q 


<c 


* — * 


UJ 


X 


er 






X 




a 


UJ 


UJ 


h- 






X. 


s: 


-! 


1— « 


S 


V- 


UJ 


_J 


m 





THE CURSE OF GREYFACE AND THE 
INTRODUCTION OF NEGATIVISM 



To choose order over disorder, or disorder over order, is to accept 
a trip composed of both the creative and the destructive. But to choose 
the creative over the destructive is an all-creative trip composed of both 
order and disorder. To accomplish this, one need only accept creative 
disorder along with, and equal to, creative order, and also be willing to 
reject destructive order as an undesirable equal to destructive disorder. 



The Curse of Greyface included the division of life into 
order/disorder as the essential positive/negative polarity, instead of 
building a game foundation with creative/destructive as the essential 
positive/negative. He has thereby caused man to endure the destructive 
aspects of order and has prevented man from effectively participating in 
the creative uses of disorder. Civilization reflects this unfortunate 
division. 

ORDER DISORDER 



S 



Mi 

a 



m 


v x Jtf 




0 



POEE proclaims that the other division is preferable, 
and we work toward the proposition that creative disorder, 
like creative order, is possible and desirable; and that 
destructive order, like destructive disorder, is unnecessary 
and undesirable. 

Seek the Sacred Chao - therein you will find the 
foolishness of all ORDER/DISORDER. They are the same! 





00063 



ERISIAN MAGIC RITUAL - THE TURKEY CURSE 



Revealed by the Apostle Dr. Van Van Mojo as a specific counter to the evil Curse 
of Greyface, the TURKEY CURSE is here passed on to Erisians everywhere for 
their just protection. 

The Turkey Curse works. It is firmly grounded on the fact that Greyface and his 
followers absolutely require an aneristic setting to function and that a timely 
introduction of eristic vibrations will neutralize their foundation. The Turkey 
Curse is designed solely to counteract negative aneristic vibes and if introduced 
into a neutral or positive aneristic setting (like a poet working out word rhythms) 
it will prove harmless, or at worst, simply annoying. It is not designed for use 
against negative eristic vibes, although it can be used as an eristic vehicle to 
introduce positive vibes into a misguided eristic setting. In this instance, it would 
be the responsibility of the Erisian Magician to manufacture the positive 
vibrations if results are to be achieved. CAUTION - all magic is powerful and 
requires courage and integrity on the part of the magician. This ritual, if misused, 
can backfire. Positive motivation is essential for self protection. 

TO PERFORM THE TURKEY CURSE: 

Take a foot stance as if you were John L. Sullivan preparing for fisticuffs. Face the 
particular greyface you wish to short-circuit, or towards the direction of the 
negative aneristic vibration that you wish to neutralize. Begin by waving your 
arms in any elaborate manner and make motions with your hands as though you 
were Mandrake feeling up a sexy giantess. Chant, loudly and clearly: 
GOBBLE, GOBBLE, GOBBLE, GOBBLE, GOBBLE! 

The results will be instantly apparent. 



A PRIMER FOR ERISIAN EVANGELISTS by Lord Omar 



The SOCRATIC APPROACH is most successful when confronting 
the ignorant. The "socratic approach" is what you call starting an argument 
by asking questions. You approach the innocent and simpy ask "Did you 
know that God's name is Eris and that He is a girl?" If he should answer 
"Yes." Then he is probably a fellow Erisian and so you can forget it. If he 
says "No." then quickly proceed to: 

THE BLIND ASSERTION and say "Well, He is a girl and His name 
is ERIS !" Shrewdly observe if the subject is convinced. If he is, swear him 
into the Legion of Dynamic Discord before he changes his mind. If he does 
not appear to be convinced, then proceed to: 

THE FAITH BIT: "But you must have Faith! All is lost without Faith! 
I sure feel sorry for you if you don't have Faith." And then add: 

THE ARGUMENT BY FEAR and in an ominous voice ask "Do you 
know what happens to those who deny Goddess?" If he hesitates, don't tell 
him that he will surely be reincarnated as a precious Mao Button and 
distributed to the poor in the Region of Thud (which would be a mean thing 
to say), just shake your head sadly and, while wiping a tear from your eye, 
go to: 

THE FIRST CLAUSE PLOY wherein you point to all of the discord 
and confusion in the world and exclaim "Well who the hell do you think did 
all of this, wise guy?" If he says, "Nobody, just impersonal forces." Then 
quickly respond with: 

THE ARGUMENT BY SEMANTICAL GYMNASTICS and say that 
he is absolutely right, and that those impersonal forces are female and that 
Her name is ERIS. If he, wonder of wonders, still remains obstinate, then 
finally resort to: 

THE FIGURATIVE SYMBOLISM DODGE and confide that 
sophisticated people like himself recognize that Eris is a Figurative Symbol 
for an Ineffable Metaphysical Reality and that The Erisian Movement is 
really more like a poem than like a science and that he is liable to be turned 
into a Precious Mao Button and Distributed to The Poor in The Region of 
Thud if he does not get hip. Then put him on your mailing list. 



00065 




A GAME 

By Ala Hera, E.L., N.S.; RAYVILLE APPLE PANTHERS 
SINK is played by sue ipaaos lq and people of much ilk. 

PURPOSE: To sink object or an object or a thing- in water or mud or anything you; can 
sink something in. 

RULES: Sinking is allowd in any manner. To date, ten pound chunks of mud were used 
to sink a tobacco can. It is preferable to have a pit of water or a hole to drop things in. But 
rivers - bays - gulfs - 1 dare say even oceans can be used. 

TURNS are taken thusly: who somever gets the junk up in the air first. 

DUTY: It shall be the duty of all persons playing "SINK" to help find more objects to 
sink, once; one object is sunk. 

UPON SINKING: The sinked shall yell "I sank it!" or something equally as thoughtful. 

NAMING OF OBJECTS is some times desirable. The object is named by the finder of 
such object and whoever sinks it can say for instance, "I sunk Columbus, Ohio." 



-p'iv'*9fr»8 .id 'wto r smmm hm*** iwe r**»b 

3Hld» >oA7*&l<] 9WWV»J. VtfW»39 rVTC**T¥ 'XVVU- 

f /S***D ***d <JNI> V ail,3M ">M v fife 



A JOINT EFFORT OF THE DISCORDIAN SOCIETY 

Post Office Liberation Front 




gTOT LICENSE 
NOT REQUIRED 



THIS IS A CHAIN LETTER. 



WITHIN THE NEXT FIFTY-FIVE DAYS YOU WILL RECEIVE 



THIRTY-ELEVEN HUNDRED POUNDS OF CHAINS! In the meantime - 
plant your seeds. 

If a lot of people who receive this letter plant a few seeds and a lot of people 
receive this letter, then a lot of seeds will get planted. Plant you seeds. 

In parks. On lots. Public flower beds. In remote places. At City Hall. 
Wherever. Whenever. Or start a plantation in your closet (but read up on it 
first for that). For casual planting, its best to soak them in water for a day 
and plant in a bunch of about 5, about half an inch deep. Don't worry much 
about weather, they know when the weather is wrong and will try to wait for 
nature. Don't soak them if its wintertime. Seeds are a very hearty life form 
and strongly desire to grow and flourish. But some of them need people's 
help to get started. Plant your seeds. 

Make a few copies of this letter (5 would be nice) and send them to friends 
of yours. Try to mail to different cities and states, even different countries. If 
you would rather not, than please pass this copy on to someone and perhaps 
they would like to. 

THERE IS NO TRUTH 

To the legend that if you throw away a chain letter then all sorts of 
catastrophic, abominable, and outrageous disasters will happen. Except, of 
course, from your seed's point of view. 



00067 



Q- "How come a woodpecker duesn't bash its 
brains out?" A. Nobody has ever explained that 




i 

It! 

a 
•z 

■s: 



tAtS>fi,H 


CRuTit. 


*M=tf(lSFrt 










IB 


1C 


ID 


IE 




2A 


?b 




£D 


2£ 




3A 


3B 


3C 


3D 


3E 




4A 


4B 


4C 


4D 


4£ 




5A 




5C 


5D 







to 




M And God said, Behold, I have given 
you every herb bearing seed, which Is 
upon the face of the earth ... to you 
It shall be for meat." 

— Genesis 1:29 



Questions 

Have a friendly class talk. Permit each child to tell any part of the unit on 
"Courtesy in the Corridors and on the Stairs" that he enjoyed. Name some causes of 
disturbance in your school. 

EXECUTE 

00069 



Chapter 1, THE EPISTLE TO THE PARANOIDS 
- - Lord Omar 



1 . Ye have locked yerself up in cages of fear - - and, behold, do ye now 
complain that ye lack FREEDOM! 

2. Ye have cast out yer brothers for devils and now complain ye, lamenting, 
that ye've been left to fight alone. 

3. All Chaos was once yer kingdom; verily, held ye domination over the 
entire Pentaverse, but today ye wax sore afraid in dark corners, nooks, and 
sink holes. 

4. O how the darknesses do crowd up, one against the other, in ye hearts! 
What fear ye more than what ye have wroughten? 

5. Verily, verily I say unto you, not all the Sinister Ministers of the Bavarian 
Illuminati, working together in multitudes, could so entwine the land with 
tribulation as have yer baseless warnings. 

Despi+e s+ror\C| evidence +o +he coi\+rary, persis+ai\+ ro/wor has i+ +ha+ '& w/as 
AAr. AAomomo+o's loro+her vi\r\o has Ma\\ovit6 AV. AAomomo+o t'r\ +he 
summer of '44. 



Advertisement 




I* 

a. A 



ino ajj. <vrtc a i — tt» ajc.) 
, in* AO • • - • i >sn ^ ; 



* _ THE ASC1MT (LLUHTWTEI) SLEFti flF HAYARIA a 
tntfie* fOt) t& join 
Tbr World' t Otdol And Meat Socmiful Caspirtcr 




Have you ever SfC«Tl» untHIESD WHY 
The GS£»T PTPAHIO has FIVE tides 
(count I nq the bottom)? 



WHAT IS the TRUE, secret SINISTER 
KALJT» lyina ttehfwl the ANCIENT 
Aitec Lesend of QUETZLCOATLr 



WHO IS the WAN In 7URTCH 
thjil sore 5 WE Aft is LEE 
HAJjVEY OSMALO ; 




LS Mere jr, ESOTERIC ALLESIRt con- 
tested fn the apoarently innoceil 
legend of Snow White and The Seven 
Cuarfs? 



WHT da scholarly tnthruiofaqHtl 
TURH PALE with lerrflr at the 
Wry MENTION nr the FORBIB0ES 
(lane TCG-SOTHQTH? 



WHAT REALLY DID HAPPtW 
TO AfflROSE BIFRCE? 



'/ bsw J. If. is attar JSC. and you H int it,: IS. 00 folia ktmJling/, you itttf it b* aUpiblv for 
a trial iwirrrvhip in tJm *.1,S,B. If ypu tfrinl: js« ijtiflii^, put tia wtie, in r ^-Jjnf f,rn 
ifiaT bun, it f>f your ."rac^ard. On* o-f our Untle+grtiimd Agtml* utli aontact yon ahdrtlu. 

I DARE TOUl 

TELL HQ Wff ACCIDENTS KA¥£ A STRANGE HA* OF HAPPENING TO PEOPLE WHO TALK TOO NtfC* AMW 

1 THE BAVARIAN ILLUrllNATN h 

May w« wan ywi against ImffrcrKemi Ours is-tfte original and genuine 




"ILLUMINATE 
THE OPPOSITION J 11 

--Adam Weishaupt, 
Grand PrimLis Illuminatus 



00070 



yyj 

i 

UJ 

I- 

< 



UJ 

U 



DC 
UJ 
I- 

z 








DG 


pj>4 

« 


3 






« 




u 








c 




o 








w 




o 




2: 


<— • 




> 


u 






1 




< 


+* 


1— < 


c 


per 








"•< 


I 


tf) 




u 




OS 






o 


i ft 




f-l 




Q 
P 


U) 


(A 


UJ 




CO 








Q 






w 


i 






o 




i-* 


u 










<-j 


a. 




3 


i-t 






X 


i 


«t 


UJ 


~* 


1— 1 


•H 


(J 


.— I 


AN 


i 
s 








3 







UJ 
Q 
O 

u 
a: 

UJ 

x 
a. 
>* 
cj 

U 

1-4 

1 
8 

a. 



u 

UJ 
VI 

CC 
LU 
Cu 
3 
lO 

m 

(-1 

B 
lO 



o 

u 

+-> a 



co 
* 

<4-l ED 
"O -r-l 

u *-> 

to m 

d C 

V OO 

r-t -H 

4) ^ 
H ffl 

M 

<-» -H 

■ h rt 

3 U 

O 1) 

M T3 

U f- 

J= O 

■rt * 

b 
c a 

o 

*-> o 

s 1 

o « 

c a. 

•H UJ 
*H O 

•M <fl 
B 
- U 
« -H 
C P< 
rt v) 

N 

o <u 

(J x 

« *-» 



CO 

fj . 
in co 
a> * 

o • 
*J < 
c 

O 

t~* in 

•H i-4 

v) a 
o +* 



CO 

1-4 

UJ 



JM fM 

X CM 

»o 

3 fM 

CM 
> CM 



ZD fM 

O 

H rsi 

ov 
to — 



a. 

to 

O «H 



X 00 

CO *• U. \£i 

IS 5 

uj O U u] 




00 CnJ 



CO 



CM H H H U 



u y m 
> 

o _ 

U < -H 



u c u 

> > 

c ^ tz 

o p o 

u c u 



H M fO t Ifl 

B. Cu da O. O. 

UJ UJ UJ UJ LU 

H H r- H H 

CO CO CO CO CO 



Ph 

60 
O 



HERE \S A LETTER ROWV M.S.8. TO POEE : 




The World"! CM dot And Mott SwceufuJ Corupimrj 

bavarian J)ffuminati 

iWnl br H—™ i ^l**h> 1090 AJ3 (MALWDAM) 
Rrfurmrd bf Adim Wuhiq«, 1774 A D. tl"b A I. 5!V5 AM) 




( l^j Smunnnm tail* I 



FROM: MAD MALU IhnpiKfeeiMnustUT 

Dear Brother Mal-2, 



In response to your request for unclassified agitprop to be inserted in the new edition of the 
PRINCIPIA, hope the following will be of use. And please stop bothering us with your incessant letters! 

Episkopos Mordecai, Keeper of the Notary Sojac, informs me that you are welcome to reveal that 
our oldest extant records show us to have been fully established in Atlantis, circa 18,000 B.C., under Kull, 
the galley slave who ascended to the Throne of Valusia. Revived by Pelias of Koth, circa 10,000 B.C. 
Possibly it was he who taught the inner -teachings to Conan of Cimmeria after Conan became King of 
Aquilonia. First brought to the western hemisphere by Conan and taught to Mayan priesthood (Conan is 
Quetzlcoatl). That was 4 Ahua, 8 Cumhu, Mayan date. Revived by Abdul Alhazred in his infamous Al 
Azif circa 800 A.D. (AlAzif translated into Latin by Olaus Wormius, 1 132 A.D., as The Necronomicon .) 
In 1090 A.D. was the founding of The Ismaelian Sect (Hashishism) by Hassan i Sabbah, with secret 
teachings based on Alhazred, Pelias and Kull. Founding of the Illuminated Ones of Bavaria, by Adam 
Weishaupt, on May 1, 1776. He based it on the others. Weishaupt brought it to the United States during the 
period that he was impersonating George Washington; and it was he who was the Man in Black who gave 
the design for The Great Seal to Jefferson in the garden that night. The Illuminated tradition is now, of 
course, in the hands of The Ancient Illuminated Seers of Bavaria (A.I.S.B.), headquartered here in the 
United States. 

Our teachings are not, need I remind you, available for publication. No harm, though, in admitting 
that some of them can be found disguised in Joyce's Finnegan's Wake , Burroughs Nova Express , the King 
James translation of The Holy Bible (though not the Latin or Hebrew), and The Blue Book . Not to speak of 
Ben Franklin's private papers (!), but we are still suppressing those. 

Considering current developments - - you know the ones I speak of - - it has been decided to 
reveal a few more of our front organizations. Your publication is timely, so mention that in addition to the 
old fronts, like the Masons, the Rothchild Banks, and the Federal Reserve System, we now have significant 
control of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (since Hoover died last year, but that is still secret), the 
Students for a Democratic Society, the Communist Party USA, the American Anarchist Assn., the Junior 
Chamber of Commerce, the Black Lotus Society, the Republican Party, the John Dillinger Died For You 
Society and the Camp Fire Girls. It is still useful to continue the sham of the Birchers that we are seeking 
world domination; so do not reveal that political and economic control was generally complete several 
generations ago and that we are just playing with the world for a while until civilization advances 
sufficiently for phase five. 



Ancient Illuminated Seers of Bavaria 
- The Discordian Society - 



MALIK to Mal-2 pg. 2 



In fact you might still push Vennard's The Federal Reserve Hoax : "Since the Babylonian 
Captivity there has existed a determined, behind-the-scenes under-the-table, atheistic, satanic, anti- 
Christian force - worshippers of Mamon - whose underlying purpose is world control through the control of 
Money. July 1, 1776 (correct that to May 1st, Vennard can't get anything right) the Serpent raised its head 
in the under-ground secret society known as The Illuminati, founded by Adam Weishaupt. There is 
considerable documentary evidence to prove all revolutions, wars, depressions, strikes and chaos stem from 
this source." Etc., etc., you know the stuff. 

The general location of our US HQ, incidentally, has been nearly exposed; and so we will be 
moving for the first time this century (what a drag!). If you want, you can reveal that it is located deep in 
the labyrinth of sewers beneath Dealy Plaza in Dallas, and is presided over by the Dealy Lama. Inclosed are 
some plans for several new potential locations. Please review and add any comments you feel pertinent, 
especially regarding the Eristic propensity of the Pentagon site. 

Oh, and we have some good news for you, Brother Mai! You know that Zambian cybernetics 
genius who joined us? Well, he has secretly co-ordinated the FBI computers with the Zurich System and 
our theoriticians are in ecstasy over the new information coming out. Look, if you people there can keep 
from blowing yourselves up for only two more generations, then we will finally have it. After 20,000 years, 
Kull's dream will be realized! We can hardly believe it. But the outcome is certain, given the time. Our 
grandchildren, Mai! If civilization makes it through this crisis, our grandchildren will live in a world of 
authentic freedom and authentic harmony and authentic satisfaction. I hope I'm alive to see it, Mai, success 
is in our grasp. Twenty thousand years....! 

Ah, I get spaced just thinking about it. Good luck on the Principia. Ewige Blumenkraft! HAIL 

ERIS. 




PS: PRIVATE - Not for publication in The Principia. We are returning to the two Zwack Cyphers for 
classified communications. Herewith is your copy. DO NOT DIVULGE THIS INFORMATION - 
SECURITY E-5. 



•n 




c 


D 


e 

J* 








sr 






IA 




o 


:a 


XX. 


xa 


06 






V 

*i 




4 


3 




& 




4 

o-o 


TT 

*? 


6 

04 




"4 


US 





Part Five 



NONSENSE AS SALVATION 



The human race will begin solving it's problems on the day that it ceases taking itself so 
seriously. 

To that end, POEE proposes the countergame of NONSENSE AS SALVATION. 
Salvation from an ugly and barbarous existence that is the result of taking order so 
seriously and so seriously fearing contrary orders and disorder; that GAMES are taken as 
more important than LIFE; rather than taking LIFE AS THE ART OF PLAYING 
GAMES. 

To this end, we propose that man develop his innate love for disorder, and play with The 
Goddess Eris. And know that it is a joyful play, and that thereby CAN BE REVOKED 
THE CURSE OF GREYF ACE. 

If you can master nonsense as well as you have already learned to master sense, then each 
will expose the other for what it is: absurdity. From that moment of illumination, a man 
begins to be free regardless of his surroundings. He becomes free to play order games and 
change them at will. He becomes free to play disorder games just for the hell of it. He 
becomes free to play neither or both. And as the master of his own games, he plays 
without fear, and therefore without frustration, and therefore with good will in his soul 
and love in his being. 

And when men become free then mankind will be free. 
May you be free of The Curse of Greyface. 
May the Goddess put twinkles in your eyes. 
May you have the knowledge of a sage, 

and the wisdom of a child. 
Hail Eris. 



T*AI 



00074 




The 

Golden 

Secret 



00075 



THUS ENDS PRINCIPIA DISCORDIA 



Cr 



t 



This being the 4th Edition, March 1970, San Francisco; a revision of the 3rd 
Edition of 500 copies, whomped together in Tampa 1969; which revised the 
2nd Edition of 100 copies from Los Angeles 1969; which was a revision of 
PRINCIPIA DISCORDIA or HOW THE WEST WAS LOST published in 
New Orleans in 1965 in five copies, which were mostly lost. 



r ■ 
« ■ C 

ft* 




® 



All Rights Reversed - Reprint what you like 



Published by POEE Head Temple - San Francisco 
"ON THE FUTURE SITE OF BE A UTIFUL 
SAN ANDREAS CANYON" 



OFFICE OF MY HIGH REVERENCE 
MALACLYPSfc THE YOUNGER KSC 
OPOVIG HIGH PRIEST POEE 




THE LAST WORD 



The foregoing document was revealed to Mal-2 by the Goddess Herself through many 
consultations with Her within his Pineal Gland. It is guaranteed to be the Word of Goddess. 
However, it is only fair to state that Goddess doesn 't always say the same thing to each listener, 
and that other Episkoposes are sometimes 

told quite different things in their t I ^ A 1 ^ 

Revelations, which are also the Word of t C.'T" O I ^ 

Goddess. Consequently, if you prefer a 

Discordian Sect other than POEE, then j-» - - — 

none of these Truths are binding, and it is a i*j fiL.G*J — 

rotten shame that you have read all the way 
down to the very last word. 



DISCORDIAN SOCIETY 



DEDICATED TO AN ADVANCED 
UNDERSTANDING OF THE PARAPHYSICAL 
MANIFESTATIONS OF EVERYDAY CHAOS 



DID YOU KNOW THAT YOU HAVE A LOPSIDED PINEAL GLAND? 



Well, probably you do have one, and it's unfortunate because 
lopsided Pineal Glands have perverted the Free Spirit of Man, and 
subverted Life into a frustrating, unhappy and hopeless mess. 

Fortunately, you have before you a handbook that will show you 
how to discover your salvation through 

ERIS, THE GODDESS OF CONFUSION. 
It will advise you how to balance your Pineal Gland and reach 
spiritual Illumination. And it will teach you how to turn your 
miserable mess into a beautiful, joyful, and splendid one. 




BAIL ERIS 
ALL HAIL 01SC0R0IA 
POEE 



poe^ is a Mp. 

-frewi PISCES ££A 
-To \M S 





I 




SPECIAL AFTERWORD 
to the Loompanics Edition of Principia Discordia 
G.H. Hill, San Francisco, 1979 
All Rites Reversed ® Reprint What You Like 



INTERVIEW WITH NORTON CABAL 



by Gypsie Skripto, Special Correspondent 

It has been ten years since I met the mysterious Malaclypse the Younger. I 
was free lancing for the underground papers and went by POEE Head Temple at 
555 Battery Street to try for an interview. 

I found him in the Temple PO Box busy wrapping up the new Fourth 
Edition of Principia . He seemed impatient with me, insisting that he didn't have 
the time or inclination for foolish questions from reporters. Undaunted, I burst 
out with questions like whether he preferred Panama Red or Acapulco Gold and 
how the fuck did we manage to fit inside of a tiny post office box and other 
things apropos a naive young semiliterate dropout hippy writer. He asked me if I 
wanted to drop mescaline and fuck all night and said he knew how to turn 
himself into a unicorn and there might be room for a tiny interview on the cover 
of the Principia if I wanted to work for the Greater Poop so I said sure, OK, I've 
never dropped mescaline in a post office box before. 

It turned out I was among the last to see Malaclypse. As subsequent 
issues of Greater Poop revealed, he was to disappear and POEE business was to 
be assumed by his students at Norton Cabal. Professor Ignotum P. Ignotius, 
Department of Comparative Realities, was assigned the Trust of the POEE 
Scruple and Rev. Dr. Occupant became Keeper of the Box. The newly published 
copies of Principia were distributed by Mad Malik, Block Disorganizer, who had 
distribution contacts with the Aluminum Bavariati. Practical relations remained 
in the hands of concept artist G. Hill. 

When the 1 000 Principias were gone the Greater Poop stopped 
publishing, Head Temple closed down and the Cabal just seemed to evaporate. 
Finally even the box was closed. But over the years I noticed that copies were 
still circulating, and that independent Discordian Cabals would occasionally pop 
out of nowhere (and still do). And I would wonder what ever happened to 
Malaclypse. 

When I read the llluminatus trilogy I resolved to again find and interview 
the denizens of Joshua Norton Cabal of the Discordian Society. 



79/1 1/26 



-1- 



Loompanics 



NORTON CABAL INTERVIEW 



G. Skripto 



* * * 



As I cabled over Nob to San Francisco's Station 'O' Post Office I couldn't 
help but wonder at Goddess, hand in assigning street addresses to Her 
outposts. Mal2 had told me that Good Lord Omar always filed everything under 
"O" for Out Of File. 



"Maya is marvelous" I was thinking when I rapped on the little metal door 
and was greeted warmly by a huge beard who introduced himself as Professor 
Ignotius. He ushered me into a spacious wood paneled and tapestry hung parlor 
where three others were laughing and passing around a wine jug. The sunny 
one in a tunic was the Reverend Doctor Occupant, the trim khaki and jeans was 
Mad Malik and the wine jug claimed to be Hill. I got the recorder on .... 



GYPSIE SKRIPTO [in response to a question]: ...1 969 but only briefly. I guess I 
missed you guys. 

MAD MALIK: No wonder, he was pretty much a one man show then. We were just 
his students and were usually off on errands. You worked for the Poop ? 

Gypsie: Well, for one night anyway. The interview is in the Principia . 

REV. DR. OCCUPANT: Malik was the only one he would ever let write for the 
Poop or get on the letterhead. 

Gypsie: Did you [Malik] have higher authority than the others? 

Malik: No, [but I was allowed to speak in the Poop ] because [Malaclypse the 
Younger] hated politics. He was infuriated with Johnson and Nixon over Viet 
Nam because it was turning the renaissance into a political revolution and was 
stealing his sacred thunder. So he trained me in Zenarchy, which he learned 
from Omar, and I was the official anarcho-pacifist for the Cabal. Also I was 
liaison to The Ancient Illuminated Seers of Bavaria, the Chicago Discordians. 
Later Omar activated the Hung Mung Cong Tong and ELF, on zenarchist 
principles, and also Operation Mindfuck. I was also into those. Though at that 
time I was masquerading in Greater Poop as a cremated cabbage to throw off 
the FBI. 

Gypsie [to Hill]: Since you wrote it, I take it you are an anarchist? 



79/1 1/26 



-2- 



Loompanics 



G. Skripto 



NORTON CABAL INTERVIEW 



G.H. HILL: Since then I have given up anarchy. Too many rules - hating the 
government and all that stuff. 

IGNOTUM PER IGNOTIUS: It's like hating your own fantasies. 

Malik: [Anarchy] is also standing up and proceeding forward, fantasy rule or not. 
The condition is the same. 

Occupant: Brother needs some wine! 

Malik: We have had this argument before, Reverend Doctor Brother. But wine 
before platitudes, fill it up. 

Gypsie [to Hill]: And pacifism? 

Hill: I'm not sure I ever was one. Mal2 was not, Malik was. Personally I accepted 
self defense yet I could never reconcile that with the ideal. I finally gave up on 
that one too. Actually I just gave up on idealism. 

Ignotius: Idealism lives with rules. Realism lives with rocks. 

Hill: Yeah. I get along better with rocks. 

Malik: Mal2 once told me that pacifism was a dilemma. If everybody was a 
pacifist then everything would be perfect. But nobody is going to be a pacifist 
unless I am first. But if I am and somebody else is not, then I get screwed. He 
said that there were five choices under that circumstance. The first was 
napalming farmers and the second was executing your parents. The third was 
hypocrisy, the fourth was cowardice, and the fifth was to swallow the dilemma. 
Zenarchists are trained in dilemma swallowing. 

Occupant: So are other Erisians, like POEE. 

Ignotius: That is characteristic of the Discordian perspective. 

Hill: But of course training contradicts Discordian principles. 

Malik: Oh so what. Contradictions are nothing to Discordians. 

Occupant: Dilemma, Schlimemma. [to Gypsie]: What do you think of this, pretty 
ma'am? We don't get to hear your thoughts. 

Gypsie: I'm reporting now, you talk. 

Occupant: Later then? 



79/1 1/26 



-3- 



Loompanics 



NORTON CABAL INTERVIEW 



G. Skripto 



Gypsie: Perhaps. Later. 
Occupant: You are smiling. 

Gypsie: Hey, guy, later, [to Hill]: Doesn't this leave you a little schizy? 

Hill: It's OK, I'm half Gemini. 

Gypsie: What's the other half? 

Hill: Taurus. That makes me stubborn schizy. 

Ignotius: I'm a Whale. 

Occupant: I choose Satyr. 

Malik: Spirits don't have signs. 

Hill: A character can have a sign if I want it so. 

Occupant: Well I can have a sign if I want to and screw both of you. 

Malik: Come on Greg, you just think that we are your characters.... 

Occupant: You were inhabited by Malaclypse the Younger. He caused you to 
create roles and those roles are being performed by us spirits. 

Ignotius: A perfectly normal pagan relationship. 

Hill: Well you can look at it like that if you want to, but I created Mal2 to my 
specifications just as I conceived all the rest of you. 

Occupant: You didn't invent Eris. She caused you to think you created the spirit 
of Malaclypse. 

Hill: Oh bull! Besides, I changed her so much the Greeks would never recognize 
her. 

Occupant: That's what She wanted! 

Ignotius: Deities change things around all the time. 

Malik: What you don't realize is that a spirit has a self identity. 

Hill: Nope. A spirit is a product of definition and the one who is doing the 
defining around here is me. Your identity is what I say it is. Just to prove it, I'm 
going to change your name. 

79/1 1/26 -4- Loompanics 



G. Skripto 



NORTON CABAL INTERVIEW 



SINISTER DEXTER: It's OK with me. Fate is fate. I never much liked "Mad Malik" 
anyway. 

Ignotius: Besides people confused him with Joe Malik in llluminatus . 

Dexter: I sort of enjoyed the confusion part. 

Occupant: Doesn't prove anything anyway. 

Gypsie: That name sounds familiar. Where is it from? 

Hill: Its a name I came up with in the old days and never used much. Its on page 
38 of the Principia referring to Vice President Spiro Agnew. I always thought I 
invented it but now it sounds like a Stan Freberg name now that I think about it. 
It may have stuck in my preconscious memory from early TV. 

Gypsie: Can you use it without his permission? 

Hill: If it is his? I don't know. I hope so. It means "left right" in Latin and is a 
perfect name for a libertarian anarchist. Actually in my kind of art the question 
of what can I use freely and what can I not is a very trickly problem. 

Gypsie: How do you mean? 

Hill: Well, take a collage for example. Like the early one on page 36 of the 
Principia . Each little piece was extracted from some larger work created by some 
other artist and published and maybe copyrighted. I find them in newspapers 
and magazines mostly. Often from ads. With a collage you select and extract 
from your environment and then assemble into an original relationship. 

The Principia itself is a collage. A conceptual collage. All of it happens 
simultaneously. But visually it is a montage, passing through time, like a book 
does. 

There is a lot of pirated stuff in the Principia , especially in the margins. But also 
I sympathize with artists who must own and sell their works to earn a living. Art, 
like knowledge, should be free fodder for everyone. But it isn't. It is perplexing. 

Gypsie: Where did all the things in Principia come from? 

Hill: Well, a full answer would take a whole book in itself. Most of the writing 
credited to a name is a true person and almost always a different name means a 
different person. Most of the non-credited, you know, Malaclypse, text is mine 



79/1 1/26 



-5- 



Loompanics 



NORTON CABAL INTERVIEW 



G. Skripto 



although some things credited to either Mal2 or Omar were actually co-written 
and passed back and forth and rewritten by each of us. The marginalia, dingbats 
and pasted in titles and heads and things came from wherever I found them - 
some of which is original but uncredited Discordian output, like the page head 
on 1 2 and other pages which is from a series of satiric memo pads from Our 
Peoples Underworld Cabal. All page layout is mine and some whole graphics like 
the Sacred Chao and the Hodge Podge Transformer are mine but mostly I just 
found stuff and integrated it. Mostly I did concept, say 50% of the writing, 1 0% 
of the graphics, all of the layout. 

Gypsie: Specifically, what are some of the sources? 

Hill: Well, the poem on the front cover is by Walt Kelly and was spoken by one of 
his characters in Pogo. The government seals starting on page 1 are from a 
book of sample seals from the U.S. Government Printing Office. Western Union 
on page 6 got into the act because I used to be a teletype operator and had 
access to blank forms. Rubber stamps came from all over the place and some, 
like the apple on page 27, I carved myself. A few I ordered to my specification, 
like on page 1 . The quote on top of page 8 might be from Barnum, I'm not sure. 
The jumping man on page 1 2 is from an advertisement. I recognize the style - a 
popular commercial artist - but I don't know his name. The Chinese on that page 
is a grocery ad, I think. The Norton money on page 1 4 is historic, plus my little 
additions. The apple on page 1 7, as well as the triangle on 23 and the Sacred 
Chao on 50 are, believe it or not, pasteups from mimeographs , from Seattle 
Cabal. That group produced the best damn mimeography I've ever seen. The 
Lick Here Box on page 23 is one of many tidbits making the rounds in 
alternative/underground newspapers in those days. Trip 5 page header on 29 
was a chapter title in one of Tim Leary's books. The Knight on the bull with the 
TV antenna on his helmet on page 46 came from a very artistic magazine called 
Horseshit and put out by two brothers from Long Beach. I don't remember their 
names. Wonderful magazine. 

Occupant: Eris told Mal2 what to use and where to find it. 

Hill: Yeah, in a way that is right. That is why my name does not appear anywhere 
on the Principia and why it was published with a broken copyright - Reprint What 
You Like. I knew I was taking liberties and didn't want my intentions to be 
misunderstood. It was an experiment and was intended to be an underground 
work and that involves a different set of ethics than commercial work. 

Gypsie: There are no real names at all? 



79/1 1/26 



-6- 



Loompanics 



G. Skripto 



NORTON CABAL INTERVIEW 



Hill: Oh, some. Camden Benares is a real name because he legally changed his 
original name to his Holy Name. Also, instead of using Mordecai Malignatus I 
used Bob Wilson's real name on page 1 2 because Werewolf Bridge was a work 
before Discordianism. And of course real people like Neils Bohr crop up in 
quotes. 

Gypsie: What do you think about the Principia now? Would you want to change 
it? 

Hill: I consider it a successful work and I wouldn't want to change it. In some 
ways it is immature and I am not the same person I was 1 0 years ago, but it 
accomplished the objectives I set for myself and it has the effect I wanted it to 
have. There are a few errors though. 

Gypsie: Like what? 

Hill: Oh, I changed a quote from Tom Gnostic on page 61 and I don't think he 
ever did forgive me for it. He's right. Starbuck's Pebbles should have been 
preceded by the Myth of Starbuck which was being saved for something else and 
never got used. I should have used it when I had the chance. And then Eris did a 
neat little trick on me by having IBM make the Greek selectric typewriter element 
not coincide with all the characters on their keyboard. So the little "kallisti" that 
first appears on the title page and lastly on the back cover came out "kallixti" 
and I was too dumb to know the difference. 

Gypsie: Will there ever be a Fifth Edition? 

Hill: There already is a Fifth Edition, by Mal2. It is a one page telegram that 
reduces everything to an infinite aum. I found it at Western Union where a 
machine got stuck and kicked out hundreds of pages of nothing but m's. He 
made it the Fifth Edition and then left. 

Principia/Malaclypse was a very personal work for me and actually took 1 0 years 
to culminate. It was one single statement that included my adolescence in the 
50's and my young adulthood in the 60's. When I finally had the paste-ups done 
I knew that I had finished it. That is why, quote, Malaclypse left. I knew it was 
finished. I didn't know exactly what it was, but it was done. 

Occupant: See? 

Gypsie: Earlier you said that you met your objectives. Just what were those 
objectives? 

Hill: Well, that's hard to answer because it kept refining itself over the years. In 
1 969 I mainly thought of myself as a cosmic clown and I set out to prove, by 



79/1 1/26 



-7- 



Loompanics 



NORTON CABAL INTERVIEW 



G. Skripto 



demonstration, that a deity can be anything at all. 

In other words, people invent gods and not the other way around. Later I 
decided that I was doing some kind of conceptual art. 

In the 50's my culture taught me that I was created by and for a deity, a specific 
male deity, and that all other deities are FALSE. Yet my growing experience 
showed me that any deity is true in some sense and false in some other sense. 
So I set out to do what my society told me is impossible— make a real religion 
from a patently absurd deity. 

In the 50's a female deity was blasphemy. In the 70's a humorous deity is still 
considered impossible, ridiculous and blasphemous. As far as I'm concerned, I 
have proven my point. Eris is a real deity and even though I don't promote 
Erisianism as a serious religion .... 

Occupant: I do! 

Dexter: You speak for yourself. 
Ignotius: Here, here. 

Hill: ...I do point out that it makes just as much sense from its own perspective 
as all the others do from each of their own perspectives. 

Occupant: I think paganism is a valid spiritual path. I encourage Erisianism 
because it makes fun of itself. I think this is healthy. 

Ignotius: If you can live rewardingly with Goddess Eris you can live with any 
deity, including none or all. 

Dexter: I don't much go for the worship business but I agree with Occupant 
about the spirit of the thing. We live in a time of turmoil, the whole planet is in a 
state of change. If we, as a species, cower from the confusion then we die with 
the dying. This is revolution. 

Ignotius: I am an athiest myself. There is no Greg Hill. 
[ laughter ] 

Gypsie [to Hill]: What do you think of llluminatus ? 

Hill: Oh, I love it. I was finishing Principia when Shea and Wilson were working 
on llluminatus . It took Dell five years to publish it. ..maybe that is significant. 



79/1 1/26 



-8- 



Loompanics 



G. Skripto 



NORTON CABAL INTERVIEW 



The 1969 Discordian Society was a mail network between independent writers of 
various kinds. Norton Cabal was just me and my characters and I used the other 
cabals as sort of a laboratory. In return other Discordians would bounce their 
stuff off of me. We would toss in ideas and anybody could take anything out. It 
was a concept stew. The exchanging of ideas and techniques broadened and 
encouraged all of us. 

I like llluminatus for the surrealism. A very effective method of writing. 

Ignotius: I got misquoted. Worse, I wasn't even in that scene and if I had been 
then I would have said something else. 

Dexter [to Ignotius]: That was me in that scene. 

Ignotius: Oh, is that what that was? 

Dexter: He got our names mixed up. 

Hill: He got mixed up about me too, in Cosmic Trigger . Bob says that when 
Oswald was buying the assassination rifle, my girlfriend was printing the first 
edition of Principia on Jim Garrison's Xerox. It wasn't my girl friend, it was 
Kerry's; it wasn't the First Ed Principia , it was some earlier Discordian thoughts; 
it wasn't Garrison's Xerox, it was his mimeograph; and it wasn't just before 
Kennedy was shot but a couple of years before that.* 

The First Ed Principia , by the way, was reproduced at Xerox Corp when 
xerography was a new technology. Which was my second New Orleans trip in 
1 965. I worked for a guy on Bourbon Street who was a Xerox salesman by day. 

Dexter: I think that George Dorn took too much guff from Hagbard. If someone 
pulls a weapon on me, I'm more inclined to either leave or kill the sonofabitch. 

Occupant: You are supposed to be a pacifist. 

Dexter: I'm speaking figuratively of course. I'll tell you more tomorrow. 



* I checked this further with Mr. Thornley. He says that the woman in question 
was not his girlfriend, she was just a friend, and it wasn't a couple of years 
before Kennedy was shot but had to be a couple of years after (but before 
Garrison investigated Thornley). --GS 



79/1 1/26 



-9- 



Loompanics 



NORTON CABAL INTERVIEW 



G. Skripto 



Gypsie [to Hill]: Did you really translate erotic Etruscan poetry? 
Hill: Sure, but I used a pen name. I signed it "Robert Anton Wilson". 
[A quick rap is heard on the door] 
Gypsie: I have only one question left... 
Dexter: I'll get it. 

Gypsie: ...what I really want to know is how can we all fit inside of a tiny little 
post office box? 

Dexter [to Gypsie]: It's a telegram for you, from Mal2. 
Gypsie: To me? 
[Paper tearing] 

Gypsie [reading]: "If I told everybody how they could live inside of a post office 
box then everybody would stop paying landlords and go live inside their post 
office boxes. It would collapse the building! Can you imagine , post offices 
collapsing all over the country, the hemisphere, the PLANET! The whole world's 
communication system would be destroyed. No, no, I must not say. I dare not!" 

### 



79/1 1/26 



-10- 



Loompanics 



Fifth Edition 



ODD #00 



or 



A CATTERPILLER'S PRAISE TO THE BUTTERFLY 

being the 

of Malaclypse the Younger 



Published by Joshua Norton Cabal 
San Francisco (k) All Rites Reversed 



M S 








This PDF Copy of the Principia Discordia was painstakingly re -scanned and re- 
assembled by the 23 Apples of Eris. It replaces an earlier version we created that had several 
printing problems, sub-par graphics, and many misspellings. 



This version is about as perfect as we could make it and still be realistically 
downloadable (original misspellings by authors were kept). It includes the entire Loompanics 
version of the Principia Discordia, aside from the blurbs and commercials for other books, as well 
as the IllumiNet version's Forward by Lord Omar. Unlike our first attempt at PDFing the 
Principia, no Steve Jackson material was included in this version. 

In addition to this PDF version of the Principia, another almost identical version exists on 
the 23 Apples of Eris Homepage (which may be found at CastleChaos.Com ) with extensive 
annotations by Net Discordians - we encourage you to check it out. Also, if you liked the scans 
and want any of the pictures, the entire Loompanics version of the Principia is available in JPG 
and DOC format. 

We would like to extend our most sincere gratitude to everybody who is responsible for 
the ideas contained here in the Principia, and also encourage you to leave copies of this 
everywhere you can - replace those useless books you always find in hotel rooms, leave some 
REAL reading material in doctor's offices. . . mail co-workers a page at a time. Whatever strikes 
your fancy. 

- Prince Mu-Chao, High Mucky-Muck, 23AE 




AMBROSE BIERCE SAYS, 



ISBN l-SSISO-OMD-T 

90000 



781559 



50040 



1 

